2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




   Register now for your free, tailored, daily legal newsfeed service.
                                                                                                                                       Register
   Find out more about Lexology or get in touch by visiting our About page.


AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System
that You Might Not Have Noticed
DLA Piper

China October 21 2020

It is believed that most enterprises are no stranger to customs authorized economic
operator (AEO) certification, and probably understand that this is a classified management
approach of enterprises adopted by Customs. However, many enterprises still have
reservations about whether it is necessary to apply for AEO certification and become an
AEO.
Admittedly, under the current national policy of enhancing cross-border trade facilitation,
import and export customs clearance efficiency has been greatly improved, and the
customs declaration of most enterprises is outsourced to third-party professional customs
brokers, in which case the enterprise personnel in charge of customs affairs basically do
not have to worry about it. Given such, whether to become an AEO does not seem to have
a significant impact on the normal import and export business of the enterprise, and
customs personnel are also very happy to maintain the status quo.
The above typical attitudes actually represent a common misunderstanding of AEO
certification. Why? We should understand and interpret this issue from different
perspectives. AEO certification is not only for an enterprise to obtain customs clearance
convenience or international mutual recognition, but also for the enterprise to gain a
competitive advantage.
Let's take a look at the following two cases, which may help you understand some of the
value of the AEO certification.




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                               1/6
2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




Case 1: A "stepping stone" to participating in international bidding

At the beginning of 2019, a special client called to inquire about the requirements for applying to the
customs to become an AEO, hoping that a professional firm could provide guidance for the AEO
certification. The client is an equipment import and export trading company under the Ministry of
Public Security. It is understood that the company has been in business for nearly 30 years and has
been operating smoothly in foreign bidding and export over the past years. It was not until in the most
recent bidding project when the company was disqualified for the bidding because it was not a
customs AEO that the company's leadership began to attach importance to the customs credit rating.
After the training of customs and management personnel by, and with the guidance of the
professional firm together with the direction of the local customs officers, the company finally
obtained the AEO certificate at the end of 2019. With the AEO certificate, the company has not only
enhanced competitiveness in the international bidding market, but also obtained significant
conveniences in formalities with the administration for market regulation and tax authority. It can be
said that this action serves many purposes.



Case 2: Opportunities for enterprise survival and development

In early September 2019, Company L, a high-end xenon lamp manufacturer in the United States,
emailed that it was facing unprecedented survival difficulties due to the trade war between China and
the United States, and was eager to find a solution to help it out of the current predicament. Company
L's products are exclusively used in high-end cinemas around the world, including China. Most of the
raw materials of the products are purchased in China, processed in the United States and then sold to
China and other countries. As both China and the United States impose additional tariffs on the
imported products from each other, the cost of products has doubled.

The customs specialist, through analysis of the supply chain arrangement of Company L, proposed
two sets of solutions, one of which involved the bonded outward processing business under the
relevant China customs regime, and required Company L’s China subsidiary to apply for the relevant
outbound processing handbook. From the operational perspective, this proposal was relatively simple
and could also reduce the operational cost of the group, but the company had to meet the rigid credit
requirements of the customs for carrying out outbound processing business. In accordance with the
requirements of the Announcement on Relevant Issues concerning the Outbound Processing
Business (Announcement of the General Administration of Customs [2016] No. 69), only enterprises
certified as AEO general authorized or advanced authorized enterprises may apply for the outward
processing handbook. To carry out the above proposal, the Chinese subsidiary of Company L
immediately began to apply for the AEO certification.



AEO certification based on the enterprise credit status can not only provide opportunities
for enterprises to break through the dilemma when they encounter difficulties, but also
bring competitive advantages for the development of enterprises. As mentioned in Case 1,
more and more multinational enterprises take AEO certification as one of the conditions
for selecting suppliers. In practice, suppliers with AEO certification are preferred partners
of enterprises even if the enterprises do not take AEO certification as a necessary
condition.

https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                            2/6
2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




Where China is now vigorously promoting streamlining administration and delegating
powers as well as building social credit system, for enterprises under equal conditions,
local regulators are more willing to grant subsidies and preferential measures to AEO
certified enterprises that are subject to more stringent examination. In accordance with the
Memorandum of Cooperation on Joint Incentives for Customs Advanced Certified
Enterprises jointed issued in October 2016 by 40 central departments, including the
National Development and Reform Commission, the People's Bank of China, the General
Administration of Customs and the Ministry of Commerce, six categories and specifically
49 joint incentive measures will apply to enterprises with high credit ratings recognized by
the customs, including green channels, reduced inspection and random checks, simplified
procedures, priority for decision-making and priority for reform pilot projects. These
measures provide practical convenience for AEO certified enterprises from a policy
perspective, including convenient green channels for government bidding, credit financing,
environment, taxation, production safety supervision, food and drug supervision, and so
on.
Regarding the entry into and exit from customs, each customs area has a Convenient
Customs Clearance List for AEO advanced authorized enterprises, including convivences in
respect of price examination, classification and certificate of origin. Advanced authorized
enterprises will be assigned enterprise coordinators to assist in coordinating with relevant
customs officers and other government agencies when the enterprise encounters import
and export problems, so as to provide practical guarantee for the supply chain and
product delivery of the enterprises.
In the following series of articles on AEO certification, we will use case examples to further
introduce the classification of AEO certified enterprises, competitive advantages,
application conditions and things to be noted.
Q&A
1. What is AEO?
AEO is the abbreviation of "Authorized Economic Operator". The AEO system is a system
advocated by the World Customs Organization (WCO) to realize the WCO Framework of
Standards to Secure and Facilitate Global Trade, under which the Customs will provide
clearance facilities for law-abiding, trustworthy and safe enterprises, build a partnership
between the customs and the business community, and to achieve mutual benefit and win-
win goals.
AEO certified enterprises may include entities that participate in the international trade in
any way and are determined by Customs to be compliant with the WCO or corresponding
supply chains safety standards, including manufacturers, importers and exporters,
customs brokers, carriers, warehouse operators and distributors.
2. How to classify the customs credit rating of enterprises? What are the categories of
AEO certification in China?
In accordance with the Measures of the Customs of the People's Republic of China for the
Classified Administration of Enterprises (Order No. 197 of the General Administration of
Customs) effective in 2011, the Customs shall, in light of the enterprises' performances in
https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                            3/6
2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




observing laws, administrative regulations, customs rules, and their respective business
management, establish five administrative categories of AA, A, B, C and D to evaluate and
classify relevant enterprises. Enterprises in categories of AA and A shall be subject to
corresponding convenient customs clearance measures, enterprises in category of B
subject to common management measures, and enterprises in categories of C and D
subject to strict control measures.
In October 2014, the General Administration of Customs issued the Interim Measures of
the Customs of the People's Republic of China for the Administration of Enterprise
Credit (Order No. 225 of the General Administration of Customs), pursuant to which the
Customs classifies enterprises into authorized enterprises (including advanced and general
authorized enterprises), general credit enterprises and dishonest enterprises according to
their credit standing, and adopts appropriate management measures according to the
principle of providing convenience for enterprises acting in good faith and in compliance
with laws and punishing those acting in bad faith and in breach of laws.
The currently effectively Measures of the Customs of the People's Republic of China for
the Administration of Enterprise Credit (Order No. 237 of the General Administration of
Customs) still follows the provisions on the classification of enterprises in Order No. 225,
but it has further implemented the relevant requirements of the national social credit
system for “Joint Incentive for Keeping Faith and Joint Punishment for Losing Faith”,
highlighting the differential principle of customs credit management.
Therefore, what we call AEO certified enterprises, including advanced authorized and
general authorized enterprises, respectively enjoy different trade facilitation treatment as
well as incentive and convenient management measures.
3. Which organization grants the AEO certification? Is it certified and issued by a third
party?
At present, the customs enterprise management department is in charge of the AEO
certification of enterprises in China. Unlike the ISO or other certifications, AEO certification
is not issued by a third-party organization. Enterprises need to prepare application
documents on their own under the guidance of professional organizations based on the
AEO certification requirements. Customs in different regions will provide training and
guidance for enterprises in the region. Considering the limited resources of the customs
and the complexity of certification application, enterprises usually engage a third-party
professional organization to provide specific guidance.
   DLA Piper - Anderson Lam, Windson Li, Doris Ho and Tina Xia




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                            4/6
2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




      Interested in contributing?

      Get closer to winning business faster with Lexology's complete suite of dynamic products designed
      to help you unlock new opportunities with our highly engaged audience of legal professionals
      looking for answers.


               Learn more




Resources

Daily newsfeed            Panoramic           Research hubs             Learn         In-depth        Lexy: AI search           Scanner

Contracts & clauses


Lexology Index
Find an expert           Reports         Research methodology                 Submissions             FAQ        Instruct Counsel

Client Choice 2025


More
About us           Legal Influencers          Firms        Blog       Events          Popular        Lexology Academic


Legal

Terms of use           Cookies         Disclaimer          Privacy policy


Contact
Help centre          Contact         RSS feeds          Submissions


Login       Register


  Search Lexology



      Follow on X                Follow on LinkedIn




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                            5/6
2025/12/20 22:27                           AEO Certification Series (I) The Customs Credit System that You Might Not Have Noticed - Lexology




             © Copyright 2006 - 2025 Law Business Research




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2dcfc31c-8b4e-49c5-9e44-b289e9ec76ba                                                            6/6
