2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




        RACHEL BOTSMAN              THE BIG STORY              OCT 21, 2017 3:00 AM




      Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to
      rate its citizens
      The Chinese government plans to launch its Social Credit System in 2020.
      The aim? To judge the trustworthiness – or otherwise – of its 1.3 billion
      residents




                                                                       SAVE THIS STORY




      ON JUNE 14, 2014, the State Council of China published an ominous-sounding
      document called "Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System".
      In the way of Chinese policy documents, it was a lengthy and rather dry affair, but
      it contained a radical idea. What if there was a national trust score that rated the
      kind of citizen you were?

      Imagine a world where many of your daily activities were constantly monitored
      and evaluated: what you buy at the shops and online; where you are at any given
      time; who your friends are and how you interact with them; how many hours you
      spend watching content or playing video games; and what bills and taxes you pay
      (or not). It's not hard to picture, because most of that already happens, thanks to all
https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 1/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      those data-collecting behemoths like Google, Facebook and Instagram or health-
      tracking apps such as Fitbit. But now imagine a system where all these behaviours
      are rated as either positive or negative and distilled into a single number,
      according to rules set by the government. That would create your Citizen Score and
      it would tell everyone whether or not you were trustworthy. Plus, your rating
      would be publicly ranked against that of the entire population and used to
      determine your eligibility for a mortgage or a job, where your children can go to
      school - or even just your chances of getting a date.



            The most ambitious, future-defining stories from our favorite
            writers.



                                                                           SIGN UP


            By signing up, you agree to our user agreement (including class action waiver and arbitration provisions), and
            acknowledge our privacy policy.




      A futuristic vision of Big Brother out of control? No, it's already getting underway in
      China, where the government is developing the Social Credit System (SCS) to rate
      the trustworthiness of its 1.3 billion citizens. The Chinese government is pitching
      the system as a desirable way to measure and enhance "trust" nationwide and to
      build a culture of "sincerity". As the policy states, "It will forge a public opinion
      environment where keeping trust is glorious. It will strengthen sincerity in
      government affairs, commercial sincerity, social sincerity and the construction of
      judicial credibility."

      Read more: China's new viral app could be straight out of Black Mirror

      Others are less sanguine about its wider purpose. "It is very ambitious in both
      depth and scope, including scrutinising individual behaviour and what books
      people are reading. It's Amazon's consumer tracking with an Orwellian political
      twist," is how Johan Lagerkvist, a Chinese internet specialist at the Swedish
      Institute of International Affairs, described the social credit system. Rogier
      Creemers, a post-doctoral scholar specialising in Chinese law and governance at
      the Van Vollenhoven Institute at Leiden University, who published a


https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 2/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      comprehensive translation of the plan, compared it to "Yelp reviews with the
      nanny state watching over your shoulder".

      For now, technically, participating in China's Citizen Scores is voluntary. But by
      2020 it will be mandatory. The behaviour of every single citizen and legal person
      (which includes every company or other entity)in China will be rated and ranked,
      whether they like it or not.
                                                                       ADVERTISEMENT




      Prior to its national roll-out in 2020, the Chinese government is taking a watch-
      and-learn approach. In this marriage between communist oversight and capitalist
      can-do, the government has given a licence to eight private companies to come up
      with systems and algorithms for social credit scores. Predictably, data giants
      currently run two of the best-known projects.

      The first is with China Rapid Finance, a partner of the social-network behemoth
      Tencent and developer of the messaging app WeChat with more than 850 million
      active users. The other, Sesame Credit, is run by the Ant Financial Services Group
      (AFSG), an affiliate company of Alibaba. Ant Financial sells insurance products and
      provides loans to small- to medium-sized businesses. However, the real star of Ant
      is AliPay, its payments arm that people use not only to buy things online, but also
      for restaurants, taxis, school fees, cinema tickets and even to transfer money to
      each other.

      Sesame Credit has also teamed up with other data-generating platforms, such as
      Didi Chuxing, the ride-hailing company that was Uber's main competitor in China
      before it acquired the American company's Chinese operations in 2016, and Baihe,
      the country's largest online matchmaking service. It's not hard to see how that all
      adds up to gargantuan amounts of big data that Sesame Credit can tap into to
      assess how people behave and rate them accordingly.

      So just how are people rated? Individuals on Sesame Credit are measured by a
      score ranging between 350 and 950 points. Alibaba does not divulge the "complex
      algorithm" it uses to calculate the number but they do reveal the five factors taken
      into account. The first is credit history. For example, does the citizen pay their
      electricity or phone bill on time? Next is fulfilment capacity, which it defines in its
https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 3/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      guidelines as "a user's ability to fulfil his/her contract obligations". The third factor
      is personal characteristics, verifying personal information such as someone's
      mobile phone number and address. But the fourth category, behaviour and
      preference, is where it gets interesting.
                                                                       ADVERTISEMENT




      Under this system, something as innocuous as a person's shopping habits become
      a measure of character. Alibaba admits it judges people by the types of products
      they buy. "Someone who plays video games for ten hours a day, for example,
      would be considered an idle person," says Li Yingyun, Sesame's Technology
      Director. "Someone who frequently buys diapers would be considered as probably
      a parent, who on balance is more likely to have a sense of responsibility." So the
      system not only investigates behaviour - it shapes it. It "nudges" citizens away from
      purchases and behaviours the government does not like.

      Friends matter, too. The fifth category is interpersonal relationships. What does
      their choice of online friends and their interactions say about the person being
      assessed? Sharing what Sesame Credit refers to as "positive energy" online, nice
      messages about the government or how well the country's economy is doing, will
      make your score go up.

      Alibaba is adamant that, currently, anything negative posted on social media does
      not affect scores (we don't know if this is true or not because the algorithm is
      secret). But you can see how this might play out when the government's own
      citizen score system officially launches in 2020. Even though there is no
      suggestion yet that any of the eight private companies involved in the ongoing
      pilot scheme will be ultimately responsible for running the government's own
      system, it's hard to believe that the government will not want to extract the
      maximum amount of data for its SCS, from the pilots. If that happens, and
      continues as the new normal under the government's own SCS it will result in
      private platforms acting essentially as spy agencies for the government. They may
      have no choice.

      Posting dissenting political opinions or links mentioning Tiananmen Square has
      never been wise in China, but now it could directly hurt a citizen's rating. But here's

https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 4/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      the real kicker: a person's own score will also be affected by what their online
      friends say and do, beyond their own contact with them. If someone they are
      connected to online posts a negative comment, their own score will also be
      dragged down.




      So why have millions of people already signed up to what amounts to a trial run for
      a publicly endorsed government surveillance system? There may be darker,
      unstated reasons - fear of reprisals, for instance, for those who don't put their hand
      up - but there is also a lure, in the form of rewards and "special privileges" for
      those citizens who prove themselves to be "trustworthy" on Sesame Credit.

      If their score reaches 600, they can take out a Just Spend loan of up to 5,000 yuan
      (around £565) to use to shop online, as long as it's on an Alibaba site. Reach 650
      points, they may rent a car without leaving a deposit. They are also entitled to
      faster check-in at hotels and use of the VIP check-in at Beijing Capital
      International Airport. Those with more than 666 points can get a cash loan of up to
      50,000 yuan (£5,700), obviously from Ant Financial Services. Get above 700 and
      they can apply for Singapore travel without supporting documents such as an
      employee letter. And at 750, they get fast-tracked application to a coveted pan-
      European Schengen visa. "I think the best way to understand the system is as a sort
      of bastard love child of a loyalty scheme," says Creemers.

      Higher scores have already become a status symbol, with almost 100,000 people
      bragging about their scores on Weibo (the Chinese equivalent of Twitter) within
      months of launch. A citizen's score can even affect their odds of getting a date, or a
      marriage partner, because the higher their Sesame rating, the more prominent
      their dating profile is on Baihe.

      Sesame Credit already offers tips to help individuals improve their ranking,
      including warning about the downsides of friending someone who has a low score.
      This might lead to the rise of score advisers, who will share tips on how to gain
      points, or reputation consultants willing to offer expert advice on how to
      strategically improve a ranking or get off the trust-breaking blacklist.



https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 5/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Indeed, the government's Social Credit System is basically a big data gamified
      version of the Communist Party's surveillance methods; the disquieting dang'an.
      The regime kept a dossier on every individual that tracked political and personal
      transgressions. A citizen's dang'an followed them for life, from schools to jobs.
      People started reporting on friends and even family members, raising suspicion
      and lowering social trust in China. The same thing will happen with digital
      dossiers. People will have an incentive to say to their friends and family, "Don't
      post that. I don't want you to hurt your score but I also don't want you to hurt
      mine."

      We're also bound to see the birth of reputation black markets selling under-the-
      counter ways to boost trustworthiness. In the same way that Facebook Likes and
      Twitter followers can be bought, individuals will pay to manipulate their score.
      What about keeping the system secure? Hackers (some even state-backed) could
      change or steal the digitally stored information.



            "People with low ratings will have slower internet speeds;
            restricted access to restaurants and the removal of the right
            to travel" Rachel Botsman, author of ‘Who Can You Trust?’

      The new system reflects a cunning paradigm shift. As we've noted, instead of
      trying to enforce stability or conformity with a big stick and a good dose of top-
      down fear, the government is attempting to make obedience feel like gaming. It is
      a method of social control dressed up in some points-reward system. It's gamified
      obedience.

      In a trendy neighbourhood in downtown Beijing, the BBC news services hit the
      streets in October 2015 to ask people about their Sesame Credit ratings. Most spoke
      about the upsides. But then, who would publicly criticise the system? Ding, your
      score might go down. Alarmingly, few people understood that a bad score could
      hurt them in the future. Even more concerning was how many people had no idea
      that they were being rated.




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 6/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Currently, Sesame Credit does not directly penalise people for being
      "untrustworthy" - it's more effective to lock people in with treats for good
      behaviour. But Hu Tao, Sesame Credit's chief manager, warns people that the
      system is designed so that "untrustworthy people can't rent a car, can't borrow
      money or even can't find a job". She has even disclosed that Sesame Credit has
      approached China's Education Bureau about sharing a list of its students who
      cheated on national examinations, in order to make them pay into the future for
      their dishonesty.

      Penalties are set to change dramatically when the government system becomes
      mandatory in 2020. Indeed, on September 25, 2016, the State Council General
      Office updated its policy entitled "Warning and Punishment Mechanisms for
      Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking". The overriding principle is
      simple: "If trust is broken in one place, restrictions are imposed everywhere," the
      policy document states.

      For instance, people with low ratings will have slower internet speeds; restricted
      access to restaurants, nightclubs or golf courses; and the removal of the right to
      travel freely abroad with, I quote, "restrictive control on consumption within
      holiday areas or travel businesses". Scores will influence a person's rental
      applications, their ability to get insurance or a loan and even social-security
      benefits. Citizens with low scores will not be hired by certain employers and will
      be forbidden from obtaining some jobs, including in the civil service, journalism
      and legal fields, where of course you must be deemed trustworthy. Low-rating
      citizens will also be restricted when it comes to enrolling themselves or their
      children in high-paying private schools. I am not fabricating this list of
      punishments. It's the reality Chinese citizens will face. As the government
      document states, the social credit system will "allow the trustworthy to roam
      everywhere under heaven while making it hard for the discredited to take a single
      step".




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 7/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      According to Luciano Floridi, a professor of philosophy and ethics of information
      at the University of Oxford and the director of research at the Oxford Internet
      Institute, there have been three critical "de-centering shifts" that have altered our
      view in self-understanding: Copernicus's model of the Earth orbiting the Sun;
      Darwin's theory of natural selection; and Freud's claim that our daily actions are
      controlled by the unconscious mind.

      Read more: China is overrun with unicorns

      Floridi believes we are now entering the fourth shift, as what we do online and
      offline merge into an onlife. He asserts that, as our society increasingly becomes
      an infosphere, a mixture of physical and virtual experiences, we are acquiring an
      onlife personality - different from who we innately are in the "real world" alone.
      We see this writ large on Facebook, where people present an edited or idealised
      portrait of their lives. Think about your Uber experiences. Are you just a little bit
      nicer to the driver because you know you will be rated? But Uber ratings are
      nothing compared to Peeple, an app launched in March 2016, which is like a Yelp
      for humans. It allows you to assign ratings and reviews to everyone you know -
      your spouse, neighbour, boss and even your ex. A profile displays a "Peeple
      Number", a score based on all the feedback and recommendations you receive.
      Worryingly, once your name is in the Peeple system, it's there for good. You can't
      opt out.

      Peeple has forbidden certain bad behaviours including mentioning private health
      conditions, making profanities or being sexist (however you objectively assess
      that). But there are few rules on how people are graded or standards about
      transparency.

      China's trust system might be voluntary as yet, but it's already having
      consequences. In February 2017, the country's Supreme People's Court announced
      that 6.15 million of its citizens had been banned from taking flights over the past
      four years for social misdeeds. The ban is being pointed to as a step toward
      blacklisting in the SCS. "We have signed a memorandum… [with over] 44
      government departments in order to limit 'discredited' people on multiple levels,"
      says Meng Xiang, head of the executive department of the Supreme Court. Another
      1.65 million blacklisted people cannot take trains.




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 8/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Where these systems really descend into nightmarish territory is that the trust
      algorithms used are unfairly reductive. They don't take into account context. For
      instance, one person might miss paying a bill or a fine because they were in
      hospital; another may simply be a freeloader. And therein lies the challenge facing
      all of us in the digital world, and not just the Chinese. If life-determining
      algorithms are here to stay, we need to figure out how they can embrace the
      nuances, inconsistencies and contradictions inherent in human beings and how
      they can reflect real life.

      You could see China's so-called trust plan as Orwell's 1984 meets Pavlov's dogs.
      Act like a good citizen, be rewarded and be made to think you're having fun. It's
      worth remembering, however, that personal scoring systems have been present in
      the west for decades.

      More than 70 years ago, two men called Bill Fair and Earl Isaac invented credit
      scores. Today, companies use FICO scores to determine many financial decisions,
      including the interest rate on our mortgage or whether we should be given a loan.

      For the majority of Chinese people, they have never had credit scores and so they
      can't get credit. "Many people don't own houses, cars or credit cards in China, so
      that kind of information isn't available to measure," explains Wen Quan, an
      influential blogger who writes about technology and finance. "The central bank
      has the financial data from 800 million people, but only 320 million have a
      traditional credit history." According to the Chinese Ministry of Commerce, the
      annual economic loss caused by lack of credit information is more than 600
      billion yuan (£68bn).

      China's lack of a national credit system is why the government is adamant that
      Citizen Scores are long overdue and badly needed to fix what they refer to as a
      "trust deficit". In a poorly regulated market, the sale of counterfeit and substandard
      products is a massive problem. According to the Organization for Economic Co-
      operation and Development (OECD), 63 per cent of all fake goods, from watches to
      handbags to baby food, originate from China. "The level of micro corruption is
      enormous," Creemers says. "So if this particular scheme results in more effective
      oversight and accountability, it will likely be warmly welcomed."




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 9/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      The government also argues that the system is a way to bring in those people left
      out of traditional credit systems, such as students and low-income households.
      Professor Wang Shuqin from the Office of Philosophy and Social Science at Capital
      Normal University in China recently won the bid to help the government develop
      the system that she refers to as "China's Social Faithful System". Without such a
      mechanism, doing business in China is risky, she stresses, as about half of the
      signed contracts are not kept. "Given the speed of the digital economy it's crucial
      that people can quickly verify each other's credit worthiness," she says. "The
      behaviour of the majority is determined by their world of thoughts. A person who
      believes in socialist core values is behaving more decently." She regards the "moral
      standards" the system assesses, as well as financial data, as a bonus.

      Indeed, the State Council's aim is to raise the "honest mentality and credit levels of
      the entire society" in order to improve "the overall competitiveness of the country".
      Is it possible that the SCS is in fact a more desirably transparent approach to
      surveillance in a country that has a long history of watching its citizens? "As a
      Chinese person, knowing that everything I do online is being tracked, would I
      rather be aware of the details of what is being monitored and use this information
      to teach myself how to abide by the rules?" says Rasul Majid, a Chinese blogger
      based in Shanghai who writes about behavioural design and gaming psychology.
      "Or would I rather live in ignorance and hope/wish/dream that personal privacy
      still exists and that our ruling bodies respect us enough not to take advantage?" Put
      simply, Majid thinks the system gives him a tiny bit more control over his data.




      When I tell westerners about the Social Credit System in China, their responses
      are fervent and visceral. Yet we already rate restaurants, movies, books and even
      doctors. Facebook, meanwhile, is now capable of identifying you in pictures
      without seeing your face; it only needs your clothes, hair and body type to tag you
      in an image with 83 per cent accuracy.

      In 2015, the OECD published a study revealing that in the US there are at least 24.9
      connected devices per 100 inhabitants. All kinds of companies scrutinise the "big
https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 10/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      data" emitted from these devices to understand our lives and desires, and to
      predict our actions in ways that we couldn't even predict ourselves.

      Governments around the world are already in the business of monitoring and
      rating. In the US, the National Security Agency (NSA) is not the only official digital
      eye following the movements of its citizens. In 2015, the US Transportation
      Security Administration proposed the idea of expanding the PreCheck background
      checks to include social-media records, location data and purchase history. The
      idea was scrapped after heavy criticism, but that doesn't mean it's dead. We
      already live in a world of predictive algorithms that determine if we are a threat, a
      risk, a good citizen and even if we are trustworthy. We're getting closer to the
      Chinese system - the expansion of credit scoring into life scoring - even if we don't
      know we are.

      So are we heading for a future where we will all be branded online and data-
      mined? It's certainly trending that way. Barring some kind of mass citizen revolt to
      wrench back privacy, we are entering an age where an individual's actions will be
      judged by standards they can't control and where that judgement can't be erased.
      The consequences are not only troubling; they're permanent. Forget the right to
      delete or to be forgotten, to be young and foolish.




      While it might be too late to stop this new era, we do have choices and rights we
      can exert now. For one thing, we need to be able rate the raters. In his book The
      Inevitable, Kevin Kelly describes a future where the watchers and the watched will
      transparently track each other. "Our central choice now is whether this
      surveillance is a secret, one-way panopticon - or a mutual, transparent kind of
      'coveillance' that involves watching the watchers," he writes.

      Our trust should start with individuals within government (or whoever is
      controlling the system). We need trustworthy mechanisms to make sure ratings
      and data are used responsibly and with our permission. To trust the system, we
      need to reduce the unknowns. That means taking steps to reduce the opacity of
      the algorithms. The argument against mandatory disclosures is that if you know
      what happens under the hood, the system could become rigged or hacked. But if

https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 11/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      humans are being reduced to a rating that could significantly impact their lives,
      there must be transparency in how the scoring works.

      Read more: As China’s space station crashes to Earth, its Mars plans are in doubt

      In China, certain citizens, such as government officials, will likely be deemed
      above the system. What will be the public reaction when their unfavourable
      actions don't affect their score? We could see a Panama Papers 3.0 for reputation
      fraud.

      It is still too early to know how a culture of constant monitoring plus rating will
      turn out. What will happen when these systems, charting the social, moral and
      financial history of an entire population, come into full force? How much further
      will privacy and freedom of speech (long under siege in China) be eroded? Who
      will decide which way the system goes? These are questions we all need to
      consider, and soon. Today China, tomorrow a place near you. The real questions
      about the future of trust are not technological or economic; they are ethical.




      If we are not vigilant, distributed trust could become networked shame. Life will
      become an endless popularity contest, with us all vying for the highest rating that
      only a few can attain.

      This is an extract from Who Can You Trust? How Technology Brought Us Together
      and Why It Might Drive Us Apart (Penguin Portfolio) by Rachel Botsman, published
      on October 4. Since this piece was written, The People's Bank of China delayed the
      licences to the eight companies conducting social credit pilots. The government's
      plans to launch the Social Credit System in 2020 remain unchanged

      Updated 28.11.17: An amendment has been made to clarify a comparison between
      the Chinese government's Social Credit System and Communist Party surveillance
      methods.

      This article was originally published by WIRED UK




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 12/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Rachel Botsman is an expert on trust in the modern world, and the author of What’s Mine Is Yours,
      and Who Can You Trust? ... Read More




      TOPICS       LONG READS             CHINA          PRIVACY           POLITICS            MAGAZINE            NOVEMBER 2017 ISSUE




                               Get The Big Story in Your Inbox
                      The most ambitious, future-defining stories from our favorite writers.




                                                                           SIGN UP


             By signing up, you agree to our user agreement (including class action waiver and arbitration provisions), and
             acknowledge our privacy policy.




                                                                         READ MORE




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                     13/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Stewart Rhodes Relaunched the Oath Keepers. Even Old Oath Keepers Don’t
      Care
      Militia leader Stewart Rhodes, who was convicted for his role in the January 6 attack, is asking
      potential new members and supporters to send money. Former allies are unconvinced.

      DAVID GILBERT




      The Trump Administration’s Data Center Push Could Open the Door for New
      Forever Chemicals


https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 14/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      The EPA is prioritizing review of new chemicals to be used in data centers. Experts say this could
      lead to the fast approval of new types of forever chemicals—with limited oversight.

      MOLLY TAFT




      He Hunted Alleged Groomers on Roblox. Then the Company Banned Him
      YouTuber “Schlep" built a huge following tracking down alleged child predators on Roblox before
      being kicked off. The platform is facing multiple lawsuits over child safety.

      DAVID GILBERT




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 15/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED


      The EPA Is in Chaos
      “We learn who is furloughed when we send an email to someone and get the out-of-office
      message,” one employee tells WIRED.

      MOLLY TAFT




      A Startup Says It Has Found a Hidden Source of Geothermal Energy
      Zanskar uses AI to identify hidden geothermal systems—and claims it has found one that could
      fuel a power plant, the first such discovery by industry in decades.

      MOLLY TAFT




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 16/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      The 67 Best Movies on Disney+ Right Now
      Madame Web, Love+War, and The Fantastic Four: First Steps are just a few of the movies you
      should be watching on Disney+ this month.

      WIRED STAFF




      DOJ Issued Seizure Warrant to Starlink Over Satellite Internet Systems Used
      at Scam Compound
      A new US law enforcement initiative is aimed at crypto fraudsters targeting Americans—and now
      seeks to seize infrastructure it claims is crucial to notorious scam compounds.

https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 17/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED
      MATT BURGESS




      Pornhub Is Urging Tech Giants to Enact Device-Based Age Verification
      The company sent letters to Apple, Google, and Microsoft pushing for an alternative way to keep
      minors from viewing porn, as US and UK laws have caused its traffic to plummet.

      JASON PARHAM




      This Is the Platform Google Claims Is Behind a ‘Staggering’ Scam Text
      Operation
https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 18/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED

      Google is suing 25 people it alleges are behind a “relentless” scam text operation that uses a
      phishing-as-a-service platform called Lighthouse.

      MATT BURGESS




      A New Anonymous Phone Carrier Lets You Sign Up With Nothing but a Zip
      Code
      Privacy stalwart Nicholas Merrill spent a decade fighting an FBI surveillance order. Now he wants
      to sell you phone service—without knowing almost anything about you.

      ANDY GREENBERG




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 19/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED




      Social Security Data Is Openly Being Shared With DHS to Target Immigrants
      For months, the Social Security Administration was quietly sharing sensitive data about
      immigrants with DHS. Now it’s official.

      VITTORIA ELLIOTT




      The Trump Administration Wants Immigrants to Self-Deport. It’s a Shit Show
      The Trump administration has been virtually begging immigrants in the US to self-deport, even
      offering money. But some immigrants say it’s been nearly impossible.


https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 20/21
2025/12/10 20:07                                            Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens | WIRED
      VITTORIA ELLIOTT




                                                                   MANAGE PREFERENCES




https://www.wired.com/story/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-invasion/                                                 21/21
