2025/12/20 22:35                               China’s Environmental Social Credit System Encourages Self-Regulation by 2020 - Lexology




China’s Environmental Social Credit System Encourages
Self-Regulation by 2020
 Blog    Environment, Land & Resources

Latham & Watkins LLP

China June 10 2019

China continues to implement an IT-based big data system of market regulation
that rewards and punishes individuals and enterprises.
China is currently implementing an innovative approach to monitoring, rating, and
regulating the behaviour of market participants through a new “social credit system” (SCS)
set forth in the Plan for Establishing a Social Credit System (the Plan). The Plan, first
published in 2014, applies credit ratings across social, political, and environmental sectors.
For example, a company breaching emissions targets will receive a lower rating (resulting
in punitive measures, higher taxes, or other sanctions).
The Plan aims to implement a self-enforcing mechanism for regulation built on big data
that monitors and evaluates economic and social behaviour using real-time feedback. The
system is designed to incentivise companies to make decisions in line with laws,
regulations, and governmental policy targets.
This blog will focus on the application of the SCS to environmental matters.
Establishing the Environmental SCS
In December 2013, several Chinese administrative bodies issued the Trial Measures for
Enterprise Environmental Credit Assessment, including the former Ministry of
Environmental Protection (MEP, superseded by the Ministry of Ecology and Environment in
2018), the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), the People’s Bank of
China (PBOC), and the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC). The measures were
followed in 2015 by the Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the Construction of Enterprise
Environmental Credit System (Guiding Opinions), issued by the former MEP and NDRC,
which called for the implementation of an environmental credit system by 2020.
The Guiding Opinions note that the new Environmental Protection Law stipulates that
information regarding environmental transgressions by enterprises, institutions, and other
production and business operators should be recorded in social integrity files and that lists
of offenders should be announced publicly and promptly. The General Office of the State
Council “Notice on Strengthening Environmental Supervision and Enforcement” requires
the establishment of an environmental credit evaluation system, including blacklisting
enterprises that contravene environmental laws and publishing blacklist information.


https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=4ac0c40e-4b13-4141-89ec-06cbfc3e5809                                                       1/4
2025/12/20 22:35                               China’s Environmental Social Credit System Encourages Self-Regulation by 2020 - Lexology




Collecting, sharing, and publishing corporate environmental credit information will allow
relevant departments to co-ordinate supervision and punishment, improve environmental
protection through the self-discipline and integrity of enterprises, and establish
environmental punishments and rewards/incentives. The required information includes:
construction project environmental management; environmental protection permits;
nuclear and radiation safety management; sewage charges and environmental protection
tax payments. For certain enterprises, the following information may also be required:
pollution monitoring; key pollutant discharge unit monitoring; access to and use of special
funds for environmental protection; and environmental risk management information.
The system is intended to encourage enterprises to take the initiative in analysing,
querying, and addressing their environmental credit records and status, and to rectify
existing problems. The Environmental Protection Department will record information
regarding prompt rectification and correction of environmentally damaging behaviour.
Rewards/Incentives and Punishment Mechanism
The Guiding Principles establish a multi-departmental rewards/incentives and punishment
mechanism to benefit enterprises with good environmental credit, while penalising
enterprises with poor environmental credit, in order to ground compliance into the system.
Enterprises with poor environmental credit will be prohibited from participating in
government procurement activities. Enterprises with good environmental credit will be
awarded preferential environmental pollution liability insurance, while enterprises with poor
environmental credit will suffer rate increases.
The mechanism also extends to finance. Enterprises with a good environmental credit
rating will receive “active credit support”, while enterprises with a lesser rating will suffer
strict loan conditions and will not be granted new loans until rectification measures are
implemented to improve environmental standing.
Jiangsu Province Implementation
An example of environmental SCS implementation is Jiangsu Province. According to
Jiangsu Province’s Provincial Rules on environmental credit rating, a colour code is
assigned to each enterprise on the basis of their environmental credit rating, which ranges
from 0 (lowest rating) to 12 (highest rating). The colour codes are green (rating 11 – 12),
blue (rating 6 – 10), yellow (rating 3 – 5), red (rating 1 – 2), and black (rating 0).
The Rules dictate that each firm receives an initial score of nine. Depending on the firm’s
environmental performance, including the severity of any violations, the environmental
credit rating will be raised or lowered. For example, an administrative penalty will lower the
rating by one point, while an environmental crime conviction will lower the rating by as
much as 12 points.
In December 2015, Jiangsu Province Department of Environmental Protection was the first
Chinese province to create a pilot programme charging higher electricity rates to
companies with low environmental credit ratings. Under this pilot programme, high-
polluting firms with red or black environmental credit ratings are charged an additional


https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=4ac0c40e-4b13-4141-89ec-06cbfc3e5809                                                       2/4
2025/12/20 22:35                               China’s Environmental Social Credit System Encourages Self-Regulation by 2020 - Lexology




RMB 0.05 (0.7 US cents) and RMB 0.1 (1.5 US cents) per kWh. The programme was first
enforced in April 2019, based on environmental credit ratings from 2017, against 11
black-graded enterprises and 32 red-rated enterprises.
Jiangsu is also one of the first provinces to charge higher wastewater treatment fees to
enterprises with lower environmental credit ratings. In 2018, several cities including
Nanjing, Wuxi, and Nantong, began to charge additional wastewater treatment fees of RMB
0.6 per cubic meter for red-rated enterprises, and RMB 1 per cubic meter for black-rated
enterprises.
Planning for 2020
The full SCS should be implemented by 2020. Companies operating in China should take
notice of the SCS and plan accordingly. Any company that fails to comply with the new
system could face punitive measures.
This article is made available by Latham & Watkins for educational purposes only as well as to give you
general information and a general understanding of the law, not to provide specific legal advice. Your receipt
of this communication alone creates no attorney client relationship between you and Latham & Watkins. Any
content of this article should not be used as a substitute for competent legal advice from a licensed
professional attorney in your jurisdiction.

   Latham & Watkins LLP - Paul A. Davies and R. Andrew Westgate




Resources
Daily newsfeed            Panoramic           Research hubs             Learn         In-depth       Lexy: AI search            Scanner

Contracts & clauses


Lexology Index
Find an expert           Reports         Research methodology                 Submissions            FAQ        Instruct Counsel

Client Choice 2025


More

About us           Legal Influencers          Firms        Blog       Events          Popular       Lexology Academic


Legal
Terms of use           Cookies         Disclaimer          Privacy policy


Contact

Help centre          Contact         RSS feeds          Submissions




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=4ac0c40e-4b13-4141-89ec-06cbfc3e5809                                                       3/4
2025/12/20 22:35                               China’s Environmental Social Credit System Encourages Self-Regulation by 2020 - Lexology




Login       Register

  Search Lexology



      Follow on X                Follow on LinkedIn




             © Copyright 2006 - 2025 Law Business Research




https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=4ac0c40e-4b13-4141-89ec-06cbfc3e5809                                                       4/4
