2025/12/20 22:26                                                             China’s AEO Joint Incentive Programme
  Home |   中文站



                                   About GACC       Legislation        Newsroom          Customs Reform         Service Center      Statistics



                   China’s AEO Joint Incentive Programme
                   03/16/2018

                   The AJI p By CHEN Jianping, AEO Programme, General Administration of ChinaCustoms
                   In October 2016, a pan-governmental initiative called the AEO Joint Incentive (AJI) programme was launched inChina. Under

                   the new scheme, companies which have met pre-determined standards under the existing AEO programme and have been

                   certified by China Customs as “Advanced Certified Enterprises” (ACE) will be entitled to enjoy as many as 49 facilitation
                   measures provided by China Customs and other government departments.At present, there are about 3,000 ACEs, accounting

                   for about 33.1% of national import and export volumes in China.

                   rogramme involves some 40 government departments. These include border agencies such as Customs, quarantine, civil
                   aviation and port authorities, and non-border agencies such as the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and

                   the Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), as well as agencies in charge of taxation, finance, environmental

                   protection, market supervision and banking supervision.

                   Facilitation measures

                   The AJI programme comprises 49 facilitation measures, which can be divided into six major categories:

                     Category 1 - “Green Lane” (includes measures for expedited licensing, registration, and release of goods: for example, the

                   tax authority has set up a green channel for AEOs to expedite formalities such as duty declaration);
                     Category 2 - “Less Inspection” (includes provisions to carry out fewer inspections at ports);

            ·         Category 3 - “Priority Treatment” (includes measures giving priority to companies requiring intellectual property protection

                   related services, such as patent application, trademark registration and litigation rights protection);

            ·           Category 4 - “Simplified Procedure” (comprises measures reducing the number of documents required by participating

                   agencies to the minimum);

            ·           Category 5 - “Major Reference Benchmark” (includes measures aimed at ensuring that the accredited AEO status of a

                   company is taken into account when inspected by other participating AJI agencies);

            ·        Category 6 - “Pilot Reform Project” (includes measures giving priority rights to AJI companies to participate in pilot projects

                   implemented by Customs and other government departments).

                   Social Credit System

                   The AJI programme is an important part of the Chinese government’s Social Credit System that is planned to be launched in
                   2020, and which aims at rating and ranking the behaviour of citizens and legal persons (which includes every company or

                   other entity) inChinaas part of a wider vision to build a secure, compliant and credible society.
                   China’s State Council has established an inter-departmental joint conference mechanism to carry out research on crucial
                   issues in constructing the Social Credit System, and to organize joint certification and monitoring programmes such as the AJI

                   programme. The mechanism includes almost all government departments. It is under this umbrella that the 40 government
                   departments collectively designed the AJI programme, specifying its main features and the benefits to be provided to

                   participants.

                   Information-sharing and exchange

                   At the heart of the Social Credit System lies massive data collection on company activities by government agencies and
                   authorized rating entities. China Customs exchanges and shares information on AEOs with other government departments by
                   connecting its AEO management system to a national platform for credit information-sharing established by the State Council

                   as part of the System. China Customs sends real-time data on about 3,000 AEOs a day on average. Other government
                   departments also share and exchange information on the platform, and this contributes to the elimination of credit information

                   silos, while making supervision more intelligent and efficient.

                   Dynamic regulatory mechanism

                   All the authorities conduct dynamic supervision and monitoring on AEOs to ensure that supply chain security rules are
                   respected. Inspection results are shared, which decreases the duplication of supervision and saves administrative resources. If
                   an enterprise is found to have engaged in illegal or dishonest activities, or not to have respected its security and compliance

                   obligations, the information is immediately sent to China Customs, which will suspend or revoke the AEO status of the
                   enterprise.

                   The Social Credit System allows for close collaboration between agencies. The AJI programme removes many of the
                   administrative barriers which previously existed amongChina’s government departments, thereby creating a more unified

                   approach.

english.customs.gov.cn/Statics/1ff5e197-d529-4d05-a7b7-6e5074cae6cb.html                                                                               1/2
2025/12/20 22:26                                                             China’s AEO Joint Incentive Programme
                   Border authorities’ control is more harmonized. Based on the mutual recognition of different security and compliance
                   programmes, such as mutual recognition of credit certificates, the AJI programme reflects mutual trust among border

                   authorities, and enables the different programmes and control measures to be coordinated, thereby making border clearance
                   more streamlined and efficient.

                   Increased attractiveness
                   As the AJI programme is rather new, it is still being perfected. But companies are already getting benefits. For example, some
                   have reduced transaction operating times and saved trading costs. The overall time for export tax rebates in the tax

                   department has decreased from 15 days to five days, which cuts about 70% of the time for a tax refund. Moreover, because of
                   enhanced credit ratings, an AEO’s proportion of direct financing based on the line of credit from banks increased from 60% in

                   2015 to 90% in 2017.
                   As more benefits are offered to Advanced Certified Enterprises, more and more companies are applying for AEO certification
                   and strengthening their security standards and compliance management.

                   More information
                   chenjianping@customs.gov.cn


                   Recommended:

                   [09/29/2025] Video:Our National Gateway

                   [09/19/2025] Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Customs Protection of Intellectual Property Rights

                   [05/9/2025] The issue of developing Smart Customs takes centre stage at the WCO’s Multi-Regional Workshop on Disruptive

                   Technologies

                   [05/9/2025] Disruptive Technologies Transforming Customs: Insights from the WCO Regional Workshop in Jakarta

                   [05/9/2025] Fostering collaboration: Recent developments on the WCO Smart Customs Community Portal during the Project

                   Meetings with the National Contact Points
                   [05/9/2025] WCO Smart Customs Project kickstarts with dynamic online meetings with National Contact Points (NCPs)

                   [05/9/2025] Empowering Customs through disruptive technologies: Launching the WCO Smart Customs Project in the WCO

                   Americas and Caribbean Region
                   [05/9/2025] WCO and China Customs launch Smart Customs Project




                   Recently Read:

                   [03/16/2018] China’s AEO Joint Incentive Programme

                   [03/12/2018] Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237




            About GACC                                            Quick Links                                        Friendly Links
            Mission                                               Legislation                                       the State Council of People's Republic
            The Minister                                          News                                              of China
            Principal Officials                                   China Customs Statistics                           Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
            Organizational Structure                              Service Guide                                      People's Republic of China

            Rank Regime                                           Clearance Status                                   Ministry of Commerce People's
            Annual Reports                                        Service Navigations                                Republic of China
                                                                                                                     China.org.cn
                                                                                                                     World Customs Organization
                                                                                                                     World Trade Organization

                                                                                                                     ETCN




            STATEMENT
            General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China
            Address: No.6. Jianguomennei Avenue, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China             Postcode: 100730




english.customs.gov.cn/Statics/1ff5e197-d529-4d05-a7b7-6e5074cae6cb.html                                                                                      2/2
