                   China’s Corporate
                   Social Credit
                   System

                   Context, Competition, Technology
                   and Geopolitics




                   An insider’s look at China’s new market regulation
                   regime: the thinking that founded it, the policy that
                   underpins it, and the technology that powers it — and
                   what it means for the United States.

                   November 16, 2020
                   Lead author: Kendra Schaefer
                   Trivium China




                   Disclaimer: This research report was prepared at the request of the U.S.-China Economic
                   and Security Review Commission to support its deliberations. Posting of the report to the
                   Commission’s website is intended to promote greater public understanding of the issues
triviumchina.com




                   addressed by the Commission in its ongoing assessment of U.S.-China economic relations
                   and their implications for U.S. security, as mandated by Public Law 106-398 and Public Law
                   113-291. However, it does not necessarily imply an endorsement by the Commission or
                   any individual Commissioner of the views or conclusions expressed in this commissioned
                   research report.
                   Table of Contents




                                                                                                   China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Foreword                                                                   3
                   Key findings                                                                6
                   Introduction                                                               9
                   Policy Foundations                                                         15
                   CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files                                   19
                   3.1 Public Credit Information (PCI)                                        19
                   3.2 Market Credit Information (MCI)                                        24
                   3.3 The boundaries of corporate social credit data for foreign companies   25

                   CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards        26
                   4.1 Blacklists and redlists                                                26
                   4.2 Ramifications of list inclusion: Unified Rewards and Punishments       29
                   4.3 Rectifying violations: objections and credit repair                    30
                   4.4 Market access controls in wider industry                               33

                   Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment                                    35
                   5.1 Corporate social credit “scores”                                       35
                   5.2 Risk monitoring platforms                                              38

                   Lending and Finance                                                        40
                   6.1 Lending risk assessment for MSMEs                                      40
                   6.2 The corporate bond market and credit ratings                           41

                   Technical Infrastructure                                                   43
                   7.1 Hardware and software                                                  44
                   7.2 Next-generation technologies                                           44

                   Implementation Status                                                      46
                   8.1 Seamless data aggregation                                              46
                   8.2 Standardized policy and legal foundation                               48
                   8.3 Well-defined penalty and reward ecosystem                              49

                   Compliance and Competition                                                 51
                   9.1 Equality of application                                                51
                   9.2 Increased vulnerability to corruption and bias: the human factor       52
                   9.3 Increased risks to — and from — key personnel                          53
                   9.4 More risk for companies with larger presence?                          54
                   9.5 Cross-contamination                                                    54
                   9.6 Data collection and disclosure                                         55
                   9.7 Implicit pressure to submit to unfair penalties                        55
                   9.8 Confusion due to decentralized rollout                                 56
                   9.9 Sector-specific dangers                                                56

                   Geopolitics and Future Risk                                                57
                   10.1 Coercing behavior from foreign companies                              57
                   10.2 Enhancing China’s influence over domestic companies abroad            58
                   10.3 Tightening Party control over local governments                       58
                   10.4 The power of data centralization                                      59
                   10.5 Exporting the CSCS: a challenge to Western financial credit models?   60
                   10.6 Exporting the CSCS: corporate regulation technology                   62
                   10.7 Lack of remedial avenues                                              63

                   Recommendations for Congress                                               65
triviumchina.com




                   Appendices                                                                 68
                   Appendix I: Member organizations of the Joint Inter-ministerial Council    68
                   Appendix II: Key national-level social credit policies and documents       70
                   Appendix III: Blacklists and redlist MOUs                                  71
                   Appendix IV: Key provincial-level social credit regulations by province    75
                   References & Notes                                                         77


                                                                                   2
                   Foreword




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System (CSCS) was conceptualized in the late 1990s
                   primarily as a mechanism to crack down on rampant corporate malfeasance and contract fraud
                   that proliferated in China’s post-opening market environment. At the time, China’s leadership
                   believed this unchecked malfeasance was stunting the growth of the socialist market economy
                   by engendering widespread distrust between consumers, businesses, regulators, and lenders. The
                   CSCS was initially envisioned as a mechanism to help regulators bring non-compliant companies
                   into line, bolstering China’s weak legal system by using “the tools of the market to punish economic
                   dishonesty.”1 The CSCS has now been implemented nationwide, and its emergence represents a
                   fundamental shift in China’s approach to market regulation.

                          Officially launched in 2014 with the release of the Planning Outline for the Construction of
                   a Social Credit System (2014-2020),2 the CSCS has expanded into an ambitious national project of
                   staggering scale and scope. It is a complex, sweeping, government-wide initiative that reaches into
                   every sector of the economy and touches on such issues as data collection, corporate regulation,
                   finance, consumer advocacy, and geopolitics — all of which this report will explore.

                           Under the CSCS, government records and market-generated corporate compliance data are
                   collected into “Corporate Social Credit Files” on every legal entity in China. The scale of this data
                   aggregation scheme cannot be overstated. CSCS files contain regulatory and administrative records
                   contributed by at least 44 state agencies and their branch offices across every province in China. In
                   a U.S. context, this would be roughly equivalent to the IRS, FBI, EPA, USDA, FDA, HHS, HUD,
                   Department of Energy, Department of Education, and every courthouse, police station, and state
                   agency sharing records across a single platform.

                          This nationwide data collection enables the second core component of the CSCS: a non-
                   prosecutorial mechanism to penalize companies with poor compliance records by reducing their
                   access to the market and subjecting them to public censure via “blacklists”, while rewarding
                   consistently-compliant companies with economic incentives and public praise via “redlists.”
                   CSCS files are also used as the basis for a wide variety of public and private-sector initiatives
                   which Beijing hopes will collectively form a multi-pronged solution to the perceived lack of
                   “trustworthiness” in the market environment.

                          The term “Corporate Social Credit System” is a somewhat of a misnomer, and the use of
                   the word “system” is misleading, as it implies that the CSCS is a single, holistic, techno-regulatory
                   apparatus, and that each policy under the social credit banner is a node in an integrated regulatory
                   framework. In fact, while the data aggregation is centralized, the policy environment surrounding
                   the CSCS is a disjointed mix of national and sector-specific policies, municipal pilot projects, and
                   hybrid public-private sector cooperative agreements, loosely centered around the goal of enhancing
                   market “trustworthiness.”
triviumchina.com




                          The CSCS has been chronically misunderstood outside of China. The system’s broad
                   scope and technical and legal complexity, coupled with a lack of English-language primary source
                   documentation on social credit, present significant barriers to understanding the realities of the


                                                                    3
                   Foreword



                   system’s aims and functions. Without clear insight into the CSCS’s design, technologies, functions,




                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   policies, goals, and limits, U.S. policymakers and businesses are at a disadvantage in assessing
                   how the CSCS may or may not evolve to negatively impact U.S. companies operating in China,
                   or be leveraged by Chinese regulators to disadvantage or otherwise impact U.S. businesses. In this
                   report, we draw on several thousand Chinese primary sources to describe what the system is and
                   what it does.

                           We also seek to more clearly define what the system does not do. A general lack of
                   understanding regarding the legal limits and technical design of the CSCS has led to widespread
                   confusion over the system’s aims — for example, the oft-repeated mischaracterization that CSCS’s
                   primary purpose is to issue “social credit scores” to companies. Similarly, the casual use of terms
                   like “big data” and “artificial intelligence” by Chinese policymakers in relation to the CSCS,3
                   coupled with China’s recent forays into the deployment of mass domestic surveillance technologies
                   such as facial recognition4 has led to significant speculation on the role that next-generation tech
                   is playing in the system’s rollout.5 In the course of our research, we draw on technical manuals,
                   data catalogs, and technical procurement documents to define the limits of data and technology as
                   they apply to the CSCS.

                            Perceptions of the CSCS within China and outside of China are starkly divergent.
                   International commentators tend to focus on the long-term potential of the system to be used as a
                   weapon of trade war against foreign companies and to strengthen the socioeconomic control of the
                   state.6 It has been pointed out that, while the CSCS was ostensibly created to enforce adherence
                   to laws and regulations, those laws and regulations exist at the sole discretion of the Party. By
                   contrast, domestic reception is largely positive. By and large, observers tend to view the CSCS
                   in light of its immediate potential to clean up a business environment perennially dogged by
                   malfeasance and fraud. We find that paradoxically, both of these may prove true, particularly in
                   China, where enhanced state control is not seen as mutually exclusive with the idea of enhanced
                   market trust and efficiency.7

                           There is also a distinct dissonance between the rhetoric used by top officials to promote
                   the CSCS domestically, and the legal realities of the system. China’s leadership touts social credit
                   as an inescapable enforcement dragnet under which, as Premier Li Keqiang stated, “there are
                   benefits everywhere for the trustworthy, and for the untrustworthy restrictions with every step.”8
                   Statements such as these call to mind a pervasive instrument of state control unbound by law
                   or human rights considerations. In practice, as this report will illustrate, many of the system’s
                   features are subject to discrete limits and are far more pedestrian than such sinister statements
                   would lead observers to believe. That said, the emergence of the CSCS raises concerns about the
                   mass aggregation of data, how the system may be abused, and how it may enable discrimination.

                           Ultimately, it is Chinese policymakers, and their vision for the CSCS, that will determine the
                   direction of the system’s development. As such, this report seeks to highlight the “insider’s view”
triviumchina.com




                   on social credit. We believe that a deeper understanding of the system’s intended consequences
                   through the eyes of the CCP will better enable U.S. policymakers to predict its future evolution,
                   evaluate the broader implications and potential unintended consequences, and engage with
                   Chinese policymakers on this issue. To that end, this report seeks to supplement its analysis with


                                                                     4
                   Foreword



                   illustrations of how the CSCS is envisioned by Beijing.




                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                           It is important to note that while the design, functions, and overall strategic direction of the
                   CSCS have been clearly articulated, many aspects of the system remain in flux; and although the
                   CSCS is operational, it is evolving rapidly. This makes definitive conclusions about some aspects
                   of the system difficult at this time. Additionally, the large number of actors participating in the
                   system’s construction has resulted in a highly fragmented policy rollout, with widely divergent
                   degrees of implementation across sectors and localities, making its overall implementation status
                   difficult to assess. That said, it is clear from the rapid progress made in the formulation of broader
                   CSCS policy and the extensive deployment of CSCS data infrastructure over the past six years that
                   China intends to proceed rapidly with nationwide implementation which will have widespread and
                   significant impact on China’s development.

                           The year 2020 is a critical moment in the development of the CSCS. The Planning Outline,
                   which articulated the strategic direction of the CSCS, is due to expire in December, and an updated
                   plan detailing the next half-decade of social credit strategy is expected by year-end. Considering
                   that the impacts of the CSCS on China’s business environment are becoming increasingly
                   apparent, now is an opportune time for U.S. business and government stakeholders to deepen their
                   understanding of the system’s purpose, functions, and dangers — as well as design an initial U.S.
                   policy response and begin to engage directly with Chinese policymakers on the topic.
triviumchina.com




                                                                      5
                   Key findings




                                                                                                               China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                        ● The CSCS was conceptualized and built — and will be implemented —
                          primarily to address domestic market concerns and to govern the behavior
                          of domestic market entities. There is currently no explicit reference in CSCS
                          policy that directly disfavors foreign companies operating in China, nor is
                          there evidence to suggest that the CSCS is being unfairly applied to foreign
                          firms. However, the CSCS opens up certain risks for all companies operating
                          in China, and foreign firms may get caught in the crosshairs. Additionally, the
                          rapid evolution of both U.S.-China relations and the CSCS itself may see the
                          CSCS evolve to disadvantage U.S. firms.

                        ● The CSCS is first and foremost a mechanism to strengthen enforcement
                          of China’s existing laws and regulations. Where those laws are just and
                          reasonable, such enforcement may be welcome. However, the CSCS will also
                          strengthen enforcement of laws which conflict with U.S. values, resulting in, for
                          example, more online censorship or advancement of the One China Principle.
                          As such, the system gives China a tool through which to intensify the pressure
                          on foreign companies to adhere to Chinese regulatory requirements that may
                          conflict with their own corporate values or the values of their customers overseas
                          — or potentially even with U.S. government policies or broader U.S. interests.

                        ● The CSCS is already operational, but the degree of implementation is still
                          highly divergent across localities and sectors. There is no date at which the
                          system will be “switched on.” Rather, the CSCS will be incrementally expanded
                          as various local governments and state agencies ramp up participation over the
                          next decade.

                        ● Corporate social credit files have been established on most registered entities
                          in China, including the China-registered branches and subsidiaries of U.S.
                          firms. These files are the central axis around which the CSCS revolves, and
                          the information they contain drives the many policy and regulatory initiatives
                          associated with the CSCS.

                        ● Corporate social credit files are primarily populated with aggregated
                          government records related to corporate compliance. When the system is
                          fully implemented, they will also contain additional information regarding a
                          company’s product and service quality as generated by consumers, industry
                          associations, and other market entities. There is no indication that CSCS
                          files currently support direct input from next-generation data sources such as
                          information from remote sensing tools, facial recognition-driven video feeds,
triviumchina.com




                          social media data streams, e-commerce purchase history, or any other such
                          information.

                        ● The current technological sophistication of the CSCS has been overstated in


                                                                 6
                   Key Findings



                                  popular discourse both within and outside of China, and the degree to which




                                                                                                                      China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                  the CSCS currently automates data collection and regulatory processes
                                  is low. Although China is piloting technologies designed to remotely detect
                                  operational violations (such as when a factory exceeds emissions quotas), there
                                  is no known instance in which automated data collection leads to the automated
                                  application of sanctions without the intervention of human regulators.

                            ● Though the sophistication of CSCS technologies is not currently high, the
                              scale of China’s national government record centralization effort, of which
                              social credit is a part, is indeed enormous. This project has considerable
                              potential to enhance the bureaucratic efficiency of the Chinese state, increasing
                              its predictive capacity and regulatory responsiveness, which could in turn
                              enhance Party legitimacy in China and other countries.

                            ● Multiple government bodies and state regulators control various blacklists
                              relevant to their jurisdictional mandate and have administrative authority
                              to determine which companies are added to such lists. Companies and
                              individuals cannot be blacklisted on a completely arbitrary basis, as there are
                              pre-determined types of violation that lead to blacklisting, but officials still hold
                              discretionary power in terms of which violations are pursued and how severely
                              violations are treated. China is currently working to further standardize the
                              procedures for the creation of new blacklists, notifications, objections, blacklist
                              removal and credit repair.

                            ● One of the mechanisms through which the CSCS aims to improve
                              “trustworthiness” in the market environment is by creating a national
                              enforcement dragnet under which companies blacklisted by one regulator
                              are subject to sanctions from multiple regulators, and companies redlisted
                              by one regulator are granted incentives by multiple regulators. To extend
                              the impact of the CSCS into corners of the market the government cannot
                              easily reach, policymakers are also experimenting with initiatives that invite
                              non-government entities, such as industry associations and big tech platforms,
                              to impose sanctions on blacklisted companies and offer benefits to redlisted
                              companies.

                            ● The broad range of application in which CSCS files are employed may
                              increase corporate vulnerability to regulatory corruption and bias through
                              the inclusion of contaminated data in CSCS files. Through the CSCS, any
                              and all records on compliance and regulatory infractions that feed into the
                              system will carry additional weight. Chinese regulators may continue to employ
                              existing methods of enforcing arbitrary regulatory infractions against foreign
                              companies, and the CSCS will by its very nature amplify the consequences of
triviumchina.com




                              those infractions by damaging a company’s CSCS standing.

                            ● Though the CSCS was not designed to serve as a trade war weapon, there


                                                                      7
                   Key Findings



                                  are avenues through which the system could be politicized. In the event of




                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                  increased trade tensions, regulatory bias could result in regulators applying
                                  penalties more stringently to U.S. companies. Such penalty records would be
                                  included in a company’s CSCS file, thus impacting that company’s overall social
                                  credit profile and potentially resulting in constraints to their market access.
                                  There is currently no clear bi-lateral platform or framework through which U.S.
                                  policymakers can raise potential CSCS-related disputes with Beijing.

                            ● Under the CSCS, the social credit files of a company’s legal representative,
                              key personnel, and actual controllers are linked to the CSCS file of the
                              company itself. If a U.S. firm is sanctioned under the CSCS, key personnel
                              may be personally sanctioned and subject to punishment. Conversely, anecdotal
                              reports indicate that the personal social credit standing of key personnel may
                              unofficially impact the company. Not only does this leave companies vulnerable
                              to unlawful behavior from senior employees, it is also possible that pressure
                              could be indirectly applied to a U.S. company via the unfair targeting of its
                              personnel.

                            ● Companies with a larger presence in China may be more exposed under
                              the CSCS. Chinese policymakers are currently hashing out the relationship
                              between the social credit standing of parent companies and their branch outlets,
                              specifically whether or not a parent company would be blacklisted if multiple
                              retail locations each receive a single infraction.

                            ● As the platforms which extract insights from social credit data become
                              more sophisticated, and algorithms are increasingly used to supplement
                              human regulatory decision-making, “algorithmic accountability” — or
                              the inherent difficulty in verifying the fairness or accuracy of machine-
                              generated recommendations — will become a key concern. This issue is
                              not unique to China, but the use of such tools by an authoritarian government
                              with an immature data privacy regime underscores the need for a push towards
                              formulating global data governance principles that protect privacy and civil
                              liberties while enabling government data to be used for analysis and decision-
                              making.

                            ● Within China, CSCS data is increasingly being used to supplement
                              financial credit data in the assessment of lending and investment risk.
                              Chinese economists have proposed that a multi-dimensional approach under
                              which lenders consider regulatory compliance metrics in addition to financial
                              metrics could form the basis of a new Chinese-led financial credit rating model.
                              Thus, in the realm of global finance, it is possible that over the long-term, the
triviumchina.com




                              CSCS could present a challenge to U.S.-led sovereign debt and corporate bond
                              rating models developed by S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch Ratings.




                                                                      8
                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 1
                   Introduction

                           In the years leading up to and following China’s accession to the WTO in 2001, a great deal
                   of international attention was fixed on China’s failure to protect the intellectual property of foreign
                   companies. At the same time, China’s central leadership was becoming increasingly concerned
                   over the economic losses incurred by domestic businesses as a result of rampant market misconduct
                   and weak regulatory enforcement. While international voices expressed concerns over a market
                   environment plagued by IP infringements and counterfeiting, internally, key Chinese policymakers
                   likewise decried the widespread contract violations, patent infringements, food safety scandals,
                   fraud, and other acts of corporate malfeasance that they believed were stunting the growth of the
                   socialist market economy. 9

                            In the late 1990s, then-Premier Zhu Rongji tasked a research team at the Chinese Academy
                   of Social Sciences — which included representatives from the People’s Bank of China, the Ministry
                   of State Security, the State Intellectual Property Office, and the Ministry of Industry and Information
                   Technology — with exploring a solution to the epidemic of unscrupulous market behavior.10 The
                   resulting treatise, The National Credit Management System (国家信用管理体系),11 was published
                   in 1999. The treatise defines the word “credit” — the Chinese word for which (信用) is perhaps
                   better translated as “trustworthiness” — in expansive terms, simultaneously understanding it as a
                   measure of one’s basic reputability, honest dealings in business, timely repayment of debts, contract
                   fulfillment, and compliance with regulatory obligations.12

                            Updated in 2002 under the title Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原
                   理), the treatise frames “credit” (or “trustworthiness”) as a critical component of a functioning,
                       13

                   efficient business environment, and as a necessary facilitator for economic activity.14 Conversely,
                   it describes “untrustworthiness” as a problematic market phenomenon resulting in both tangible
                   fiscal losses and intangible damage to the growth of the socialist market economy and society as
                   a whole.

                            In its earliest incarnation, the Social Credit System (SCS) was entirely concerned with
                   “trustworthiness” in the economic sense — malfeasance by enterprises and misconduct by individual
                   citizens in their roles as business professionals, entrepreneurs, borrowers, and consumers. But over
                   the fifteen years between the publication of the treatise and the official launch of the SCS, the
                   scope of the system was broadened dramatically. China’s modern Social Credit System not only
                   seeks to enforce regulatory policy in the business environment, but also to coerce desired behaviors
                   from citizens in a social context, as well as crack down on unsanctioned corruption, overspending,
                   and policy non-compliance among local governments. Because noncorporate applications of the
                   modern SCS are outside the scope of this report, we use the term “Corporate Social Credit System”
                   (CSCS) to refer only to those parts of the Social Credit System which are relevant to businesses,
                   while the term “SCS” is used to reference the system as a whole.
triviumchina.com




                          The emergence of the CSCS was an acknowledgement that China’s judicial system was ill-
                   equipped to address issues of market misconduct. The treatise stated that:



                                                                     9
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                             [O]nly a small portion [of such infringements] result in criminal prosecution and




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                             judicial punishment. The majority of contract violations and other untrustworthy
                             phenomena cannot be resolved through criminal investigation and judicial trial, and
                             even in the event that a judicial trial occurs, there are still considerable difficulties
                             in enforcement of the judgement. The contract violations that the [social credit
                             system] seeks to address is precisely this type of untrustworthy economic activity,
                             those … which are inconvenient to prosecute under public security laws. 15

                           The CSCS was intended to shore up these gaps by creating an alternative enforcement
                   mechanism: one which would use “the tools of the market to punish economic dishonesty,” rather
                   than depending on criminal prosecution to achieve the same effect. Thus, with two key problems in
                   their sights — untrustworthy market behavior and a judiciary that struggled to enforce regulatory
                   compliance — the architects of the CSCS were faced with the challenge of designing a market-
                   based mechanism for penalizing non-compliant market actors.

                           However, before “untrustworthy” parties could be penalized, they had to be identified.
                   Thus, the first task in the implementation of the CSCS was the establishment of a dataset that could
                   be used to give regulators a holistic view of corporate and individual regulatory compliance. In
                   order to be effective, such data would presumably need to be reliably available to the government,
                   relatively uniform for all companies regardless of sector or size, and relevant to determinations of
                   compliance.

                           Viewed collectively, the Chinese government has access to an immense pool of data that
                   could fulfill these requirements. Information such as corporate registration records, tax arrears
                   records, social security and utility payment history, administrative penalty records, and operational
                   license records — all of which have been determined under CSCS policy to provide relevant
                   insights regarding corporate compliance — have long been collected by China’s state agencies.
                   However, no single authority has unilateral access to all such records. Thus, CSCS policy mandates
                   the elimination of inter-agency and inter-locality data silos, requiring multiple government bodies
                   and market regulators to contribute relevant records to a national body of “corporate social credit
                   files” (CSCS files).

                            CSCS files have already been established on the majority of China’s businesses. These
                   files are the axis around which the CSCS revolves, and the CSCS’s various initiatives are based
                   on the records they contain. In Section 3, we will examine exactly which government records are
                   included in CSCS files and which are not. We will also examine how China intends to supplement
                   government records with data generated by consumers, industry associations, credit reporting
                   agencies, and others to craft an increasingly detailed picture of corporate compliance.

                           Once corporate compliance can be assessed via CSCS files, the CSCS seeks to penalize
                   “untrustworthy” companies by reducing their access to the market and enforcing economic
triviumchina.com




                   sanctions, while rewarding “trustworthy” companies with increased market access and economic
                   incentives. The CSCS does this by empowering regulators to place companies found in violation
                   of pre-determined regulations on one of several dozen national “blacklists.” When a company
                   is blacklisted by one government regulator, the blacklist record is included in the company’s


                                                                        10
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                   CSCS file, triggering a series of additional sanctions from multiple participating regulators. Such




                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   sanctions can include restrictions on issuing stocks and bonds, more frequent environmental or
                   safety inspections, restrictions on foreign exchange quotas, bans on participating in government
                   procurement bids, denied approvals for science and tech projects, restricted access to loans and
                   financing, ineligibility for government funds and subsidies, and many others. Conversely, when
                   consistently compliant companies are “redlisted” by one regulator, they become entitled to a wide
                   variety of incentives and preferential policies offered by multiple state agencies, including fast-
                   tracked administrative approvals and processing of bureaucratic procedures, fast-tracked access
                   to credit and financing, preferential consideration in government procurement bidding and policy
                   incentives, reduced inspection rates, better import and export quotas, and more. This mechanism,
                   called “Unified Rewards and Punishments”, is described in Section 4.

                           Though government regulators play the leading role in penalizing blacklisted companies
                   and rewarding redlisted companies, Unified Rewards and Punishments is envisioned as a partially
                   market-driven mechanism. To this end, the central government is beginning to experiment with
                   enlisting private companies and industry associations to participate in the issuance of awards
                   and the application of penalties — for example, by encouraging e-commerce platforms to mark
                   blacklisted sellers as “untrustworthy” in search results. In this way, CSCS policymakers seek to
                   embed the system into corners of the market where the government itself may not easily reach.
                   In Section 4.3, we look at some examples of how Unified Rewards and Punishments is being
                   increasingly integrated into the private sector.

                           It is interesting to note that although China’s Social Credit System and its financial credit
                   system are distinct (we discuss social credit’s relationship to finance in Section 6), the design of the
                   Social Credit System takes its inspiration from Western financial credit rating systems.16 The 2002
                   treatise dedicates several chapters to examining U.S. credit law and identifying two key aspects of
                   the U.S. approach to financial credit assessment as fundamental to the development of the Chinese
                   social credit model, those being:

                             1. A national system for the collection of records related to debt repayment history,
                                which is applied in a variety of financial contexts.17
                             2. An economic penalty mechanism enabled by these records under which a failure
                                to honor one financial obligation (failure to pay credit card bills, for example)
                                has concrete ramifications in other areas (such as receiving unfavorable interest
                                rates when applying for a mortgage loan).18

                         The treatise expanded these two basic ideas beyond the financial sphere, and under the
                   CSCS, this manifests as:

                             1. A national system for the collection of records related to regulatory compliance
                                (CSCS files), which are then applied in a variety of regulatory and commercial
triviumchina.com




                                contexts.
                             2. A system of penalties and market access restrictions for entities that have failed
                                to honor such obligations, and incentives for those who consistently comply.



                                                                      11
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                           These two facets of social credit — the collection of data and a system for applying




                                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   punishments and rewards based on that data — are the two pillars on which the CSCS (and indeed
                   the broader Social Credit System) is built. However, the data collection element is arguably the
                   more central of the two, and to characterize the CSCS as merely a mechanism for meting out
                   sanctions and incentives is to miss the bigger picture. Under social credit policy, CSCS files —
                   and particularly the blacklist and redlist records they contain — are used as the basis for a wide
                   array of initiatives aimed at boosting trustworthiness across the economy. CSCS files are publicly
                   available, and they are incorporated into analytics platforms deployed by market regulators to
                   determine how much regulatory attention should be paid to given company; they underpin a variety
                   of grades issued to companies based on their level of compliance; they are displayed on public- and
                   private-sector websites and apps designed to help consumers choose trustworthy service providers,
                   reputable employers, and honest business partners; and they are integrated into financial credit
                   reports to enable lending institutions to better assess loan and investment risk. Various sections of
                   this report will touch on each of these applications of CSCS data.

                             There is no definitive timeline for the system’s nationwide finalization, nor have any


                       Figure 1: Key uses of CSCS files
                       Source: Graphic by Trivium China


                       Used by regulators to support:                                                        Used by regulators to support:
                       Market access controls                                                    Smarter resource deployment




                                                                          CSCS FILES




                                                                                                               Used by lenders to support:
                       Used by general public to support:
                       Consumer decision-making                                                          Financial risk assessment
triviumchina.com




                                                        Used by regulators, industry associations, and
                                                              credit rating agencies to inform:
                                                            Corporate grading systems



                                                                                 12
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                   clear implementation milestones been set. This is likely because, as we discuss in Section 8, the




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   ambitious nature of the project and its many moving parts pose significant scheduling challenges.
                   Additionally, the large number of actors participating in the system’s construction has resulted in a
                   highly fragmented policy rollout, with widely divergent degrees of implementation across sectors
                   and localities, making overall development difficult to track.

                           Perhaps more fundamentally, it is impossible to assess the progress made towards a goal
                   that has not yet been fully defined. Beijing has never articulated a long-term vision or “end state”
                   for the SCS in general, or for the CSCS more specifically. What form the CSCS will ultimately
                   take, what balance of automated algorithmic regulation and human decision-making Beijing
                   ultimately hopes to achieve, how deeply the CSCS will penetrate the market, and whether or not
                   Beijing plans to export aspects of the CSCS or its underlying theories, are all open questions.
                   Given that Beijing continues to take a trial-and-error approach to stress-testing certain elements of
                   the system domestically — an approach former Communist leader Deng Xiaoping once referred
                   to as ‘crossing the river by feeling the stones’ — it is likely that the long-term vision has not been
                   articulated because it has not yet solidified at the highest levels. A shifting regulatory environment,
                   emerging technologies, and changes in the broader geopolitical landscape are all factors that may
                   influence the final shape of the CSCS.

                           Beijing’s medium-term vision for the system, however, is easier to extrapolate from its
                   existing status and developmental direction. We assess that from China’s perspective, a mature
                   CSCS would be characterized by:

                           Seamless data aggregation: All records earmarked as relevant to corporate compliance,
                   generated by government bodies down to the district level, would be centralized in CSCS files
                   reliably and in real time — roughly equivalent to the seamlessness with which individual mortgage
                   payments, auto loan payments, credit card payments, and other financial records are passed to U.S.
                   credit reporting bureaus by various lenders. Additionally, well-worn channels would exist for the
                   collection of market-generated information related to a company’s product and service quality
                   from consumers, business partners, and industry associations.

                           CSCS files will have taken root as the official national source of corporate credibility
                   information, with broad awareness among the general public, and broad adoption of their use not
                   only in the regulatory arena, but in applications such as due diligence, recruitment and employment,
                   consumer advocacy, member selection for key industry association, participant selection for trade
                   expos, and financial risk assessments. China’s major tech platforms and startups would draw upon
                   CSCS data to develop credibility-related algorithms to extract predictive market insights.

                           Strong legal and policy ecosystem: A strong, stable, and refined body of laws and policies
                   will underpin the various mechanisms that drive social credit, including the issuance of penalties and
                   rewards, the procedures for credit repair, and the rights and obligations of citizens and government
triviumchina.com




                   under the CSCS.

                            Well-defined penalty and reward ecosystem: A broad body of regulators, financial
                   institutions, tech platforms, social organizations, industry associations, and private businesses


                                                                     13
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                   would form an enforcement dragnet under which a blacklisted company or individual becomes so




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   hampered by financial sanctions, operational restrictions, and public condemnation that they are
                   driven either to rectify the violation or exit the market. Likewise, that same body of actors would
                   cooperate to place redlisted companies and individuals on the path to economic success through
                   financial incentives, bureaucratic conveniences, and public praise.

                          The feasibility of attaining these end results, however, is still in question, and significant
                   implementation challenges remain. These include the technical challenges inherent in deploying
                   nationwide data aggregation infrastructure, ensuring data reliability and security, ensuring equal
                   application of CSCS policies across localities, navigating pushback from state agencies and local
                   governments, among others.

                           This vision — particularly the potential omnipresence of the Unified Rewards and
                   Punishments mechanism — has given rise to deep concern that the CSCS will be leveraged to lock
                   foreign companies out of the market. This report finds little evidence to suggest that the CSCS is
                   currently being employed to either disadvantage foreign firms or to advantage Chinese companies.
                   Nor do we find that there is currently any intention to use the system in such a manner. However, the
                   CSCS is being developed and implemented in a context of both deteriorating U.S.-China relations,
                   and stronger top-down economic control under Xi Jinping, and it must therefore be viewed within
                   this context. The design of the CSCS does open up certain avenues through which it could evolve
                   to disadvantage foreign firms in the event of worsening international relations. Additionally, the
                   CSCS exposes all companies — both Chinese and foreign — to certain potential risks, including
                   greater vulnerability to regulator bias and data contamination. Ultimately, whether or not the CSCS
                   becomes a trade war weapon will depend largely on the fairness with which it is applied, and the
                   degree to which it is developed. We discuss these findings in Section 9.

                           So far, the CSCS has had little tangible impact in the realm of geopolitics, but depending
                   on how the system evolves, the next several decades may see it begin to impact the international
                   arena. In Section 10, we explore how the CSCS could manifest as a tool of corporate coercion,
                   how China’s drive towards data centralization and algorithmic regulation under the CSCS may
                   enhance Beijing’s global power, how the system gives the central government a tool through which
                   to solidify its grip over local governments, and whether or not the CSCS might present a challenge
                   Western financial credit rating models.

                          Ultimately, the role the CSCS plays on the global stage will depend on the shape it takes
                   domestically. Thus, before we speculate on the CSCS of tomorrow, we look first at the policies
                   shaping the system today.
triviumchina.com




                                                                    14
                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 2
                   Policy Foundations

                          In June 2014, China’s State Council published the landmark social credit policy, Planning
                   Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020)19 (hereafter Planning Outline),
                   marking the official launch of China’s SCS initiative.

                           Though social credit received little international attention prior to the Outline’s release, the
                   system had remained under more or less continual development since it was initially proposed. Social
                   credit was first formally raised for legislative consideration at the 2000 Two Sessions conference,
                   the annual meeting of China’s senior lawmakers.20 The proposal soon received the support of the
                   State Council, China’s top administrative authority. Over the following years, social credit working
                   groups and research committees were formed to move the system forward, and early urban pilots
                   of the SCS were launched in Shanghai, and later, Wenzhou, to test its viability. From 2007 to 2008,
                   the State Council released two policies formalizing its intention to proceed with the nationwide
                   construction of the Social Credit System.21 It also established the Joint Inter-ministerial Council
                   on the Construction of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系建设部际联席会议) – a cross-
                   agency platform for social credit research, planning, promotion, and development,22 setting the
                   stage for the first concerted push towards national implementation (see all member organizations
                   in Appendix I).

                           The release of the Planning Outline in 2014 represented the culmination of 15 years
                   of research, planning, groundwork-laying, pilot programs, and false starts. It established the
                   motivations, theory, scope, and stakeholders for the SCS, outlined vague targets for the first six
                   years of SCS implementation, and called on state agencies, local governments, and the private
                   sector to participate in its construction in various capacities. A follow-up policy, Opinions on
                   Promoting the Institutionalization of Integrity Construction,23 was released the following month.
                   This second document sketched out the Party’s vision for the practicalities, technical underpinnings,
                   and regulatory mechanisms of social credit.

                          In many critical respects, the Planning Outline adheres closely to the original vision of
                   the SCS as outlined in the 1999 treatise. It identifies one of its key aims as the prevention of
                   “production safety accidents, food and drug security incidents... commercial deception, production
                   and sales of counterfeit products, tax evasion, fraudulent financial claims, academic impropriety
                   and other such phenomena [which] cannot be stopped in spite of repeated bans.”24

                           However, the Planning Outline also extends social credit well beyond the original conception
                   of the SCS as a “corporate social credit system,” recontextualizing it as a banner under which to
                   also effect sweeping trust- and efficiency-based reforms in government and society at large, such
                   as fostering a culture of law-abiding sincerity and civic responsibility (the “citizen social credit
                   system”), increasing judicial credibility, improving the efficiency of regulatory and administrative
triviumchina.com




                   services, and ensuring local governments honor commitments to the people, the Party and the State
                   (the “government social credit system”).




                                                                     15
                   Section 2 - Policy Foundations



                           To be clear, the Planning Outline does not segment the Social Credit System into these




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   discrete buckets, and there are areas of overlap between the corporate-, citizen-, and government-
                   targeted aspects of the SCS. For example, just as social credit files are being compiled on every
                   company in China, so are social credit files compiled on every Chinese citizen. These files can be
                   interconnected, as under the CSCS, the personal social credit file of a company’s legal representative
                   and actual controllers are tied to the CSCS file of the entity itself. As we discuss in Section 9.4, if
                   a company is blacklisted for malfeasance, key personnel may themselves be blacklisted, effecting
                   their personal social credit. In another example of conceptual overlap, under the “government
                   SCS”, entire local governments are blacklisted and sanctioned for running up unpaid debts to local
                   SMEs.25

                           Perhaps paradoxically for such a wide-reaching, top-down system, the Outline also
                   contextualizes social credit as a tool to reduce “administrative governmental interference in the
                   economy,” the thinking being that a market environment and judiciary made more efficient through a
                   greater degree of auto-pilot, self-regulation would require less government and regulatory oversight,
                   freeing up regulators to focus their attention on a smaller handful of bad actors, while allowing
                   “trustworthy” companies with proven records of compliance to operate with less disruption.

                           The Planning Outline did not formalize legal definitions for the terms “social credit,”
                   “trustworthiness,” or “untrustworthy behavior,” and the words were subsequently used ambiguously
                   in both policy and public discourse. Although it is tempting to draw Orwellian associations with
                   the vague use of moralistic terminology such as “trustworthiness” by authoritarian governments,
                   there is currently scant evidence to suggest that the term represents a degree of loyalty to socialist
                   ideology. This was underscored in a July 2020 national social credit policy draft, which states:

                            [A] determination of untrustworthy conduct must be based on a legally
                            effective document. The basis for determining untrustworthy conduct includes:
                            effective judicial judgment and arbitration documents, administrative penalties,
                            administrative rulings, and other administrative decisions, as well as other
                            documents that can be used as the basis for determining untrustworthy conduct
                            according to laws, regulations, or decisions and orders of the State Council. 26

                           Additionally, a review of the broader collective body of social credit policies supports
                   the assertion that, under the modern CSCS, “social credit” — and by extension “trustworthiness”
                   — primarily refer to compliance with obligations.27 This definition is explicitly spelled out in
                   Shanghai’s provincial social credit ordinance,28 which defines social credit “to mean ‘the status of
                   compliance’ … with legally prescribed obligations or performance of contractual obligations in
                   social and economic activities.”29

                           None of this is to suggest that the CSCS is necessarily benign or apolitical, particularly
                   from the perspective of those foreign governments and companies that object on ethical grounds
triviumchina.com




                   to some of the laws and obligations that the CSCS was designed to enforce, such as the One
                   China Principle, the Cybersecurity Law, and online censorship regulations. Moreover, it has been
                   argued that while democratic governments conceptualize the law as existing “independently of
                   politics, the Party understands law as a reflection of [its own will],”30 and new regulations may


                                                                     16
                   Section 2 - Policy Foundations



                   be established with little warning or oversight, and with few — if any — checks and balances.




                                                                                                                                China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Viewed from this lens, the enforcement of the law is, in an abstract sense, the enforcement of Party
                   ideology. An exploration of such concerns is far beyond the boundaries of this report, but in the
                   most immediate and practical sense, it is clear that “trustworthiness” under the CSCS is currently
                   understood in legal rather than political terms.

                           The Planning Outline identifies the National Development and Reform Commission
                   (NDRC), China’s administrative planning body, and the People’s Bank of China (PBOC), China’s
                   central bank, as the agencies tapped to spearhead the implementation of the SCS.31 Specifically,
                   the NDRC’s Department of Fiscal Finance and Credit Construction (财政金融和信用建设司)
                   is responsible for SCS project planning and oversight, and its sub-body, the National Public
                   Credit Information Center (国家公共信用信息中心), is responsible for administering the social
                   credit dataset and data transfer infrastructure.32 In its capacity as a macroeconomic regulator, the
                   NDRC’s work and jurisdiction touches on those of most other state agencies, and it is therefore
                   well-placed to act as a both a central administrator of the SCS data and a coordinator of rewards
                   and punishments under the CSCS. The PBOC’s involvement is primarily focused on the areas in
                   which social credit overlaps with the financial sector (discussed in Section 6). Taken together, the
                   jurisdictional coverage of these bodies extends across all sectors of the economy. China’s primary
                   market regulator, the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR), also plays a critical
                   role in the CSCS, as in the course of its duties, it generates a significant proportion of records on
                   corporate operations that are included in CSCS files.33

                          Though the NDRC and the PBOC are at the helm of the CSCS, implementation is truly a
                   government-wide effort. As of April 2020, the Joint Inter-ministerial Council on the Construction
                   of the Social Credit System had grown from its initial 15 member organizations to 46 member
                   organizations,34 and as of June 2019, a reported total of 44 government agencies across 32 localities
                   contribute records to the social credit dataset.35

                           Major Chinese policy initiatives are typically rolled out in a cyclical, trickle-down fashion:
                   general strategic direction is set at the highest levels of government, and the practicalities of
                   implementation are refined at the provincial, city, and district levels. Lessons learned at the local
                   level are then passed back up the chain to the national government, which uses these insights to
                   course-correct and further hone the next strategic plan.

                           Social credit has been no exception. The release of the Planning Outline touched off a
                   similar waterfall effect, as China’s government agencies, industry regulators, and local governments
                   worked to apply social credit to their areas of jurisdiction. Social credit-related policies now number
                   in the thousands. They include strategic plans for the future of SCS development, national-level
                   policies for integrating social credit into specific sectors, local-level ordinances for the collection of
                   social credit data, local-level pilots exploring potential applications of social credit, and technical
                   standards that govern social credit databases and data sharing.
triviumchina.com




                           National-level foundational policies: Released by the State Council and the NDRC,
                   national planning and foundational policy documents define the major strategic direction of social
                   credit implementation and define its core functions (see major national social credit policies in


                                                                      17
                   Section 2 - Policy Foundations



                   Appendix II). They also may reaffirm the Party’s commitment to social credit, outline new features




                                                                                                                               China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   of the CSCS or course-corrections in CSCS development, and urge state agencies and local
                   governments to improve or accelerate certain aspects of the CSCS in their jurisdictions. Building
                   on the Planning Outline, in 2019 the State Council released Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the
                   Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based Supervisory Mechanism
                   (hereafter cited as 2019 Guiding Opinions),36 which called for the expanded implementation of social
                   credit specifically as it regards market regulation. This document indicated that policymakers saw
                   deficiencies in the state of CSCS data collection, data privacy protection, public credit awareness,
                   and availability of bureaucratic channels for credit repair. In July 2020, the NDRC and the PBOC
                   jointly released the draft policy Guiding Opinions on Further Regulating the Scope of Inclusion
                   of Public Credit Information, Punishment for Untrustworthiness, and Credit Restoration to Build
                   a Long-term Mechanism for Credit Construction (hereinafter cited as 2020 Guiding Opinions on
                   Further Regulation), which seeks to tighten the standardization and legal basis for blacklisting,
                   data collection, and CSCS penalties.37

                            National-level sector-specific policies: Taking broad direction from the State Council and
                   the NDRC, China’s state agencies are responsible for drafting and implementing CSCS policies and
                   initiatives within their areas of jurisdiction.38 Several hundred such policy documents exist at the
                   national level, including regulations defining the CSCS penalties for companies found in violation
                   of a specific agency’s statutes (see Section 4.2), sector-specific social credit data collection projects
                   (see Section 7), and grading systems to measure corporate compliance within certain sectors
                   (see Section 5.1). This includes such documents as the Ministry of Human Resources and Social
                   Security’s policy covering how the SCS will be leveraged to penalize companies in violation of
                   social insurance laws,39 the Ministry of Agriculture’s policy on the establishment of social credit
                   files for agricultural producers,40 and the Ministry of Ecology and Environment’s policies covering
                   social credit’s relationship to environmental impact assessments for construction projects.41 In
                   many cases, policymakers have updated existing regulations to include provisions stating that
                   violations of any rules outlined within that document will be recorded in social credit files.

                           Local-level policies: Each provincial, city, and district government is tasked with
                   formulating social credit regulations, implementing data collection infrastructure, and devising
                   social credit initiatives relevant to its locality.42 Social credit policies at the local level number
                   in the thousands, and include ordinances governing local social credit development (see Section
                   8.2), incentive schemes for local companies that maintain good social credit, as well as existing
                   corporate regulations that have been updated to tie them into the CSCS framework.

                           Technical standards: The basic technical standards covering the storage, structure, and
                   transfer of social credit data are defined at the national level. These standards are still incomplete
                   and are currently being finalized through cooperation between the NDRC, PBOC, and China’s
                   national standards bodies. We cover these standards in greater detail in Section 3.
triviumchina.com




                          Through these policies and technical standards, social credit is being layered into regulatory
                   schemes across every sector and locality in China, but though CSCS policies take many forms, the
                   vast majority share a common thread: they deal with the collection, sharing, application, processing,
                   analysis, and leveraging of corporate social credit files.


                                                                      18
                   Section 3




                                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files

                           The 2014 Opinions on Promoting the Institutionalization of Integrity Construction called
                   for the establishment of a cross-sector “social credit file [system] with full national coverage”
                   under which social credit files would be established for every company, organization, and citizen
                   in China.1 It further indicated that CSCS files should contain aggregated corporate compliance
                   records from multiple government departments across various localities, and that files should be
                   made publicly available so that the social credit status of enterprises is “open, transparent, and
                   verifiable.”43 Social credit files are tied to each organization’s Unified Social Credit Identifier (
                   统一社会信用代码), which replaced business registration numbers as China’s key domestically-
                   registered business entity identifier in 2015.44 The CSCS file system has now become a reality, and
                   there is a reasonably large body of documentation detailing what information CSCS files contain.

                           Shanghai’s regional social credit regulations define “social credit information” as “objective
                   data and materials that can be used to identify, analyze, and judge the compliance and performance
                   status of information subjects.”45 Broadly, CSCS policy segments social credit information into
                   two categories:46

                            1. Public Credit Information (PCI), which is defined as data or information
                               generated or collected “by government bodies or legally-authorized
                               administrative bodies in the performance of their duties,” and
                            2. Market Credit Information (MCI), or “information generated by businesses,
                               organizations, or credit services and credit investigation bodies ....”47

                           Put more simply, PCI is data about a company generated as a direct result of the company’s
                   interactions with regulators and government entities, and MCI is data about a company more
                   indirectly generated by the market through the company’s broader interactions with industry,
                   lenders, and consumers.

                   3.1 Public Credit Information (PCI)
                           Public Credit Information (公共信用信息) forms the core of corporate social credit files
                   and is the key set of records on which the CSCS is based. PCI consists of government records
                   generated by state agencies and local governments during the course of regulatory operations, and
                   includes “fines, warnings, citations, punishments, court orders, and also professional qualifications,
                   business licenses, official approvals, [and] commendations” (see complete list of PCI categories in
                   Table 1).48

                          In 2016, the NDRC released a national-level catalog of PCI,49 generally identifying which
                   records each member agency of the Joint Inter-ministerial Council should be responsible for
                   contributing to the CSCS. Though the catalog was quite extensive — earmarking 400 records for
triviumchina.com




                   1 For the purposes of this report, the term “social credit file” refers to a dossier of records relating to one individ-
                   ual or company, “social credit record” refers to a single entry contained within that file, and “social credit data” or
                   “social credit information” is a general term referring to any part of a social credit file or record.


                                                                              19
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files



                   inclusion — it was not a finalized list. Just as the Planning Outline set the national policy direction




                                                                                                                                     China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   for social credit but left the specifics of implementation to state agencies and local governments, so
                   did the national PCI catalog set a national data-collection guidepost but leave state agencies and local
                   governments to further refine exactly which records would be submitted at the provincial,2 city,3
                   and district4 levels. In the following years, however, it became clear that a nationally-standardized
                   PCI index was needed: in July 2020, the NDRC and PBOC jointly released a draft policy calling on
                   the Joint Inter-ministerial Council to finalize the contents of a national PCI catalog by “soliciting
                   opinions from various regions, departments and relevant market entities, industry associations,
                   chambers of commerce, legal service agencies, experts, scholars, and the public.”50 This catalog
                   has not yet been released, but is not expected to vary greatly from the 2016 version.

                           In the 2016 PCI catalog, each item of PCI is marked as positive, negative, or neutral
                   information, and is assigned one of three designations which determines the scope of access to
                   that data: “open to the public,” “shared between all government agencies,” or “restricted sharing
                   (between select government agencies).” Approximately 75 percent of the records collected on
                   companies is designated as “open to the public.” The remaining 25 percent includes potentially
                   sensitive information such as details of criminal cases and prosecutions, and approval records
                   related to national research and development projects, energy and pipeline projects, foreign
                   investment by SOEs, and foreign-invested projects within China, among many others.51

                          Technical documentation released in 2019, which details the types of data supported for
                   sharing over CSCS data-transfer networks, groups PCI into 19 specific categories. These 19
                   categories form the core anatomy of CSCS files, as summarized in Table 1.52

                   Table 1: Nineteen categories of Public Credit Information


                    Unified Social Credit Identifier
                    Record type                 Existed         When record is generated        Government body         Expand-
                                                prior to                                        which contributes       ability
                                                the SCS?                                        this type of record

                    Basic company               Yes             During company registration     State Administration    Low
                    registration data                                                           for Market Regulation
                                                                                                (SAMR)




                   2 Example: Hubei Provincial Development and Reform Commission, Hubei Province Public Credit Information
                   Catalogue (2017 version) (湖北省公共信用信息目录(2017版)(属地篇)), November 22, 2017. Translation. http://
                   www.hbcredit.gov.cn/gywm/xyml/201802/t20180201_27394.shtml.

                   3 Example: Liaoyuan City Office of the Joint Conference on the Construction of the Social Credit System, Liaoy-
                   uan City Public Credit Information Catalogue (2020 version), (辽源市公共信用信息目录(2020年版)), May 22,
                   2020. Translation. http://www.liaoyuan.gov.cn/ztzl/xyly1/zcfg/swzcfg/202006/t20200609_444649.html.
triviumchina.com




                   4 Example: [Weihai] Economic Zone Office of the Joint Conference on the Construction of the Social Credit Sys-
                   tem, Weihai Economic and Technological Development Zone Public Credit Information Data Collection List (2019
                   version), (威海经济技术开发区公共信用信息数据归集清单(2019年)), September 30, 2019. Translation. http://
                   www.eweihai.gov.cn/art/2019/9/30/art_63558_2244148.html.


                                                                               20
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files




                                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                    Record type                 Existed         When record is generated             Government body         Expand-
                                                prior to                                             which contributes       ability
                                                the SCS?                                             this type of record

                    Registration data           Yes             On change of company ownership,      SAMR                    Low
                    alterations                                 registered address, etc.

                    Equity information          Yes             During company registration          SAMR                    Low


                    Branches and                Yes             During branch and subsidiary         SAMR                    Low
                    subsidiaries                                registration

                    Senior management           Yes             During company registration or on    SAMR                    Low
                                                                change of management / ownership

                    Annual report               Yes             On submission of annual report,      SAMR                    Low
                                                                self-submitted by companies

                    Legacy registration         Yes             Registration numbers issued before   N/A                     Low
                    numbers                                     implementation of Unified Social
                                                                Credit Identifiers

                    Tax payment records         Yes             On payment                           State Taxation          Low
                                                                                                     Administration (STA)

                    Tax arrears                 Yes             On legal judgement of default        STA                     Low


                    Social insurance            Yes             On payment                           Ministry of Human       Low
                    payment history                                                                  Resources and Social
                                                                                                     Security, STA

                    Provident Fund              Yes             On payment                           Ministry of Housing     Low
                    payment record                                                                   and Urban-Rural
                                                                                                     Development

                    Public utility payment      Yes             On payment                           Utility companies       Low
                    record

                    Public utility arrears      Yes             On legal judgement of default        Utility companies       Low


                    Permits, licenses and       Yes             On issuance                          Any issuing body        High
                    project approvals

                    Inspection records          Yes             After random or targeted             Typically SAMR,         High
                    and inspection                              inspections                          but includes other
                    results                                                                          inspecting regulators

                    Administrative              Yes             On issuance                          Any regulator           High
                    penalty records                                                                  empowered to issue
triviumchina.com




                                                                                                     penalties




                                                                               21
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files




                                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                    Record type                 Existed         When record is generated                 Government body         Expand-
                                                prior to                                                 which contributes       ability
                                                the SCS?                                                 this type of record

                    Blacklist records           No              When the criteria for blacklist          Any government          High
                    (Details in Section                         inclusion has been met and               body empowered
                    4.1)                                        enterprise has been added to a           to administer one or
                                                                blacklist, or criteria for removal has   more blacklists
                                                                been met and enterprise has been
                                                                removed

                    Redlist records             No              When the criteria for redlist            Any government          High
                    (Details in Section                         inclusion has been met and               body empowered
                    4.1)                                        enterprise has been added to a           to administer one or
                                                                redlist, or criteria for removal has     more redlists
                                                                been met and enterprise has been
                                                                removed

                     Awards and                  Yes            Upon receiving any one of various        Any government          High
                     recognitions                               awards, from R&D innovation              body empowered to
                                                                awards to outstanding charitable         issue official awards
                                                                contribution awards and product
                                                                quality awards
                   Source: Various.53


                           These basic categories of PCI have remained consistent for at least the last five years, and
                   there is currently no evidence of plans to add additional categories to this list. Any expansion of
                   the PCI dataset, then, would likely come from an expansion of the number of records contained
                   within each category. The number of records could be expanded through an increasing number
                   of government agencies participating in data sharing under the CSCS, or through an increasing
                   number of contributed records from currently participating agencies. However, we assess that only
                   six of these categories are likely to see any significant expansion, as two-thirds of them represent
                   a discrete set of documents — such as “tax arrears,” “senior management,” and “branches and
                   subsidiaries” — that are, by nature, limited in scope. Categories with a high likelihood of expansion
                   include those that have a broad or ill-defined scope, such as “project approvals” and “penalty
                   records,” and “awards and recognitions.”

                           Regardless, it is clear from an examination of the documents discussed above that traditional
                   government records make up the main body of CSCS files; the PCI dataset and databases were not
                   designed to directly collect, contain, or share data from next-generation sources such as information
                   from remote sensing tools, facial recognition-driven video feeds, social media data streams,
                   e-commerce purchase history, or any other such information, and do not appear to currently support
                   the input or storage of such data.

                             The records marked for inclusion in the PCI dataset are shared between government agencies
                   and aggregated via the National Credit Information Sharing Platform (全国信用信息共享平
triviumchina.com




                   台), a back-end channel for intra-governmental PCI exchange. In late 2015, the NDRC launched
                   its first iteration of the National Credit Information Sharing Platform (NCISP),54 built on top of
                   China’s existing government services extranet (政务外网), which handles national information



                                                                                 22
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files



                   sharing of all government records, not only those related to the CSCS.55 In November 2017, various




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   draft documents of the NCISP data management framework were released by the NDRC,56 and in
                   March 2019, the task of refining that framework was assigned to the social credit standards drafting
                   committee SAC/TC470 (全国社会信用标准化技术委员会),57 which is comprised of the NDRC’s
                   National Public Credit Information Center, the China Standardization Research Institute, and a
                   number of other research institutions and private technology companies.58 Though the framework
                   has not yet been finalized and several key standards are still subject to approval,5 the structure of
                   social credit’s PCI data transfer mechanisms is clear.

                          According to the framework, participating government bodies generate and collect records
                   which are transferred to each company’s national CSCS file via the NCISP, where non-protected
                   records are then accessible by other government bodies and the general public nationwide. In
                   most cases, it is the local branches of government bodies — such as product quality inspectors at
                   the municipal branch of SAMR, or the provincial-level tax collection authorities — that conduct
                   the bulk of PCI collection on companies registered or operating within their jurisdictions. This is
                   because it is the local branches of each agency that undertake most day-to-day tasks of governance
                   and administration.59 Records can then be passed up the chain to the national-level ministry or
                   agency as needed. This system is roughly equivalent to the IRS, FBI, EPA, USDA, FDA, HHS,
                   HUD, Department of Energy, Department of Education, and every courthouse, police station, and
                   major utility company in the U.S. sharing regulatory records across a single platform.

                           Publication and transparency: The majority of PCI records are earmarked for public
                   sharing. This is one of several indications that Beijing’s intention in compiling a national repository
                   of corporate PCI is not to reserve the data for government use. Rather, the NDRC acts as a data
                   administrator — collating, standardizing, and publishing CSCS records — while encouraging the
                   use of such data in the broadest possible range of applications in both the public and private sectors
                   (see Section 4.4).60

                           To extend the reach of CSCS data to the general public, two centralized web platforms
                   offering open social credit record searches have been established: Credit China (信用中国),
                   operated by the NDRC, and the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System (全国
                   企业信用信息公示系统), operated by SAMR. The CSCS records displayed on Credit China are
                   collected from multiple regulatory agencies, and provide an overview of a company’s credit status,
                   key penalties received, and operational licenses. In addition, Credit China also serves as the official
                   government website for social credit news, policy releases, and officially sanctioned op-eds by
                   officials and academics at institutions involved in social credit research. The National Enterprise
                   Credit Information Publicity System is a CSCS record search portal only, and contains a number
                   of additional records collected by SAMR, including inspection reports. Of the two, Credit China is
                   by far more complete and accurate: though multiple CSCS policies indicate that certain PCI from
                   any agency will be listed on both Credit China and the National Enterprise Credit Information
                   Publicity system, as of June 2020, the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System
triviumchina.com




                   5 Example: National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, General Frame-
                   work for Standard System of Public Credit Information (国家发展改革委办公厅关于印发实施《公共信用信息标
                   准体系框架》等六项工程标准的通知), November 15, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201803/t20180302_962672.html.


                                                                          23
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files



                   only contains records collected by SAMR, and does not contain data from other agencies. This




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   may simply indicate that SAMR is running behind on integrating cross-agency data into its portal,
                   or it may indicate an internal conflict over CSCS data sharing. While these platforms are both
                   currently online and searchable by the public, they are also still under development. CSCS data
                   sharing infrastructure is not yet fully implemented nationwide, and thus the platforms cannot yet
                   offer complete and accurate record sets (see Section 8 for implementation status).

                   3.2 Market Credit Information (MCI)
                          Market Credit Information (MCI) refers to information on companies generated by
                   consumers, industry associations, enterprise credit rating agencies, and other market players, and
                   may include consumer complaints regarding product or service quality, operational soundness, and
                   other data points.61

                          Unlike PCI, a specific and well-defined dataset, the concept of MCI is vague and poorly
                   defined. Some sources of MCI have been identified in policy, but others have only been alluded
                   to in official documents or public statements by regulators. On the more specific end of the
                   spectrum, the Planning Outline and the 2019 Guiding Opinions make reference to the collection
                   of product and service quality information gathered via national consumer complaint hotlines such
                   as “12315,”6 but the policies do not specify how this information will be employed in relation to
                   the CSCS. More ambiguously, the NDRC has indicated that MCI such as “data publicized by …
                   industry associations” and “major incidents of [corporate] dishonesty as exposed online” has been
                   taken into account (alongside PCI) in the issuance of certain CSCS grades (see Section 5.1 on
                   CSCS grades and ratings), but the process through which this occurs is opaque.62

                           A 2017 NDRC social credit directive urged CSCS policymakers to “encourage industry
                   associations, chambers of commerce, big data companies, financial institutions, news media, [and]
                   social organizations … to provide information on the trustworthy and untrustworthy behaviors of
                   relevant subjects so as to research whether or not [this information] may have relevance [to social
                   credit].”63 In 2018, the National Public Credit Information Center issued a request for proposals
                   to undertake research into “the extraction of effective information and key indicators reflecting
                   the credit status of credit subjects from large datasets, and the excavation and analysis of all types
                   of credit information (including Public Credit Information, [Market] Credit Information, internet
                   big data, etc.),” indicating that the NDRC is still exploring which types of MCI can be reliably
                   collected and how such data can be used effectively.64

                           Beyond exploring the possibilities for MCI collection and evaluation, the central government
                   is also encouraging companies to self-submit MCI that may bolster social credit assessments.
                   The 2019 Guiding Opinions “encourage market entities to voluntarily register credit information

                   6 China has established a series of national dial-in hotlines which members of the general public may call to file
                   complaints regarding specific businesses, of which 12315 is one. Callers provide the company’s Unified Social Cred-
triviumchina.com




                   it Identifier when making their complaint. See: State Administration of Market Regulation of the People’s Republic
                   of China, Opinions of the General Administration of Market Supervision on the Integration and Construction of the
                   12315 Administrative Law Enforcement System to Better Serve Market Supervision and Law Enforcement (市场监
                   管总局关于整合建设12315行政执法体系更好服务市场监管执法的意见), February 25, 2019. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2019/content_5407676.htm.


                                                                           24
                   Section 3 - CSCS Data: Corporate Social Credit Files



                   such as qualification certificates, market operations, contract performance... and make a credit




                                                                                                                                  China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   commitment as to the authenticity of the information and authorize [various government social
                   credit] websites to integrate and share the information.”65 Currently, companies may optionally
                   upload this information via SAMR’s National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System, but
                   there is no particular incentive to do so.

                           It bears underlining that there is no known CSCS initiative or penalty scheme which
                   exclusively draws on MCI. Viewed collectively, policies that deal with the applications of MCI
                   characterize it as supplementary to the core PCI dataset, rather than as a standalone asset, and center
                   on its potential to help regulators target the deployment of resources by more closely pinpointing
                   which companies should receive a greater degree of regulatory attention.7

                   3.3 The boundaries of corporate social credit data for foreign companies
                           None of the above intends to suggest that the Chinese government does not collect any
                   other data on foreign companies or is uninterested in collecting corporate data beyond what we
                   have outlined above. Taking a wide-lens view, Beijing’s efforts to scrape, compile and analyze
                   cross-border trade data — particularly in relation to the “Belt and Road Initiative” — are well
                   documented.66 Nor does the above suggest that the scope of PCI may not be expanded in the future.
                   The government extranet on which the NCISP is built contains a vast array of records, accessed
                   and contributed to by 149 government departments,67 that policymakers may one day decide to
                   include in the PCI dataset. Additionally, there are significant outstanding questions regarding the
                   current and future scope of MCI.

                            However, there are also increasingly clear regulatory and technical boundaries around what
                   constitutes CSCS data, what type of data China intends to associate with the CSCS in the near-
                   and medium-term. Social credit’s legal and regulatory mechanisms — including CSCS sanctions,
                   rewards and grades — are principally driven by PCI, and there are no social credit regulations
                   or initiatives wholly based on or driven by other datasets. Though the Chinese government may
                   collect any amount of data on foreign companies, such data is not currently relevant to the CSCS
                   and does not have any impact on corporate social credit profiles. The conflation of non-CSCS-
                   related data collection with CSCS data muddles the issue of corporate social credit and impedes
                   clear-eyed analysis of the system.

                           Finally, it is significant to note that from a technical perspective, corporate social credit
                   files must be tied to a Unified Social Credit Identifier, which is only assigned to entities registered
                   in China, and therefore core CSCS databases do not appear to support the creation of social credit
                   files on foreign companies with no registered Chinese entity. Moreover, as PCI is only generated
                   in the course of China-based regulatory operations, companies and individuals located outside of
                   China will not trigger the mechanisms that generate these records. This applies equally to the types
                   of MCI that are currently defined.
triviumchina.com




                   7 Example: Key SCS policymaker Lian Weiliang outlines core role of PCI in one CSCS-related grading system:
                   State Council Information Office of the People’s Republic of China, “The Comprehensive Evaluation System for
                   Public Credit is Being Established and Perfected (公共信用综合评价制度正在建立和完善之中),” July 18, 2019.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-07/18/con-
                   tent_5411351.htm.


                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                               China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 4
                   CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards

                           As outlined in Section 3, CSCS files are the centralizing point for 19 categories of government
                   records shared by government agencies across China. However, two of those categories —blacklist
                   and redlists — have by far the greatest impact on a company’s social credit standing. Under the
                   CSCS, blacklists and redlists are the primary determinants of whether a company is sanctioned
                   or incentivized, and thus deserve particular attention. In this section, we will examine how the
                   CSCS uses centralized blacklist and redlist records to reward consistently compliant companies
                   with increased access to the market and penalize non-compliant companies with restricted market
                   access.

                   4.1 Blacklists and redlists
                           A blacklist is a type of public record which identifies companies and individuals found
                   in violation of a pre-determined set of regulations — for example, one blacklist may identify
                   companies which have violated work safety regulations, while another identifies parties found in
                   violation of patent laws. A redlist is the opposite: a roster of companies and individuals demonstrating
                   consistent compliance with a specific set of regulations, such as consistent tax payment or low rates
                   of import-export violations.

                            Blacklists and redlists have been an integral component of the CSCS since the system
                   was first proposed, and though the concept of blacklists and redlists existed in China long before
                   the release of the Planning Outline,8 it is under the CSCS that these lists have been become a
                   standard feature of China’s new market regulation regime. The 2014 Opinions on Promoting
                   Institutionalization of Integrity Construction called on each government body and regulator
                   participating in the CSCS to develop blacklists and redlists relevant to their sector, with a priority
                   on sectors in which malfeasance poses a significant threat to public safety or has caused “public
                   concern.”68 The State Council’s 2016 Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving the Joint
                   Incentive System for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary System for Untrustworthiness further
                   pressed for blacklist and redlist standardization.

                           In response to these policies, government bodies — guided by the NDRC — formulated
                   regulations establishing blacklists and redlists for their areas of jurisdiction. The majority of existing
                   blacklists and redlists were created between 2016 and 2018. Since then, the announcement of new
                   national-level lists has slowed dramatically. As of November 2019, forty established blacklists and
                   eight redlists were in effect at the national level.69 Of these, about half have a broad scope, such as
                   those targeting violations in the areas of environmental protection, import-export, social security,

                   8 Though it is unclear when blacklists were first used in China, they have been employed for regulatory purposes
                   since at least the early 2000s, and likely long before. The 2002 treatise references blacklisting as a familiar tool that
                   should be standardized under the CSCS. Examples of blacklists and redlists in effect prior to Planning Outline re-
triviumchina.com




                   lease: State Food and Drug Administration of the People’s Republic of China, Regulations on the Administration of
                   the “Black List” of Drug Safety (Trial) ( 药品安全“黑名单”管理规定(试行)) , August 13, 2012. Translation. http://
                   www.hngy.gov.cn/zwgk/zdly/spaq/7647/content_1444667.html. ; China Information Broadcast Network, “8 Zheji-
                   ang Enterprises Selected for ‘Customs Red List’ - Integrity is the Key” (8家浙企入选“海关红名单” 诚信是关键),
                   March 1, 2009. Translation. http://zj.cnr.cn/xwdd/200708/t20070824_504550479.html.


                                                                              26
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards



                   tax arrears, and e-commerce fraud. The remaining blacklists are only applicable to enterprises and




                                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   professionals operating in specific sectors, such as financial services, transportation, insurance,
                   salt production,9 domestic services, travel, real estate, food, agriculture, and medicine. Some
                   government agencies control more than one blacklist, particularly agencies whose regulatory
                   mandate is broad, such as SAMR (which controls blacklists identifying violators in the areas of
                   food safety, product quality, and general business operations), the Ministry of Human Resources
                   and Social Security (which controls a blacklist identifying companies that fail to pay migrant
                   workers’ wages, and another for companies that violate social security statutes), and the Ministry
                   of Transport (which controls a blacklist for companies that overload transport vehicles and another
                   for logistics providers).

                           The creation of new blacklists (and redlists) is coordinated through the NDRC and the Joint
                   Inter-ministerial Council, which cooperates with state agencies to identify appropriate lists for each
                   sector. The documents that establish new national lists — called Memorandums of Understanding
                   (MOUs) — all follow a similar format: they first enumerate the purpose of the list and its targets,
                   and then they note the penalties or rewards to which parties included on the list will be subject (see
                   all MOUs in Appendix III).

                           Although the NDRC is involved in the creation and ratification of blacklists and redlists,
                   the administration of these lists is not centralized under any one government body. After a list has
                   been created, the state agency that controls each list has primary authority to determine which
                   companies are added to it.10 For example, the State Taxation Administration (STA) has the authority
                   to blacklist companies for tax fraud, tax arrears in excess of RMB 100,000, invoice forgery, and
                   other tax-related violations. Conversely, the STA has the authority to redlist companies that have
                   paid taxes in full for two consecutive years, and have not been blacklisted by any other state agency.

                           State agencies may not arbitrarily determine which companies and individuals are
                   blacklisted. Some MOUs directly enumerate the violations that will lead to blacklisting, other
                   MOUs simply state which types of violations will lead to list inclusion and specify inclusion
                   criteria in separate documents.70 For example, a company may be included on the General
                   Administration of Customs blacklist of “dishonest enterprises” for any one of ten violations which
                   include smuggling, committing more infringements within a given year than 0.1 percent of the
                   total number of customs declarations and manifests submitted by the company in the previous year,
                   being in arrears of payable fines, providing false information to Customs, and “serious” obstruction
                   of Customs officers in the performance of their duties.71 In mid-2020, the Guiding Opinions on
                   Further Regulation draft updated “industry blacklisting standards and procedures to require both

                   9 In 2016, the government moved to end the state monopoly on salt, allowing producers to determine their own
                   prices and distribution channels. The creation of a salt industry blacklist is intended to enforce regulations on the
                   newly liberalized industry and ensure product safety (such as the sufficient addition of iodine) in the absence of the
                   state monopoly.
triviumchina.com




                   10 For examples of blacklist authority relegation, see Articles 4 and 5 in: State Administration of Work Safety of
                   the People’s Republic of China (duties relegated to Ministry of Emergency Management after 2018 Chinese govern-
                   ment restructure), Implementation Measures for Joint Punishment for Untrustworthy Conduct in the Field of Work
                   Safety, (对安全生产领域失信行为开展联合惩戒的实施办法), May 9, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.google-
                   usercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://www.mem.gov.cn/fw/cxfw/xycx/zdwj/201705/t20170509_245783.shtml.


                                                                                  27
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards



                   a serious violation of law and [either] a threat to health or safety, disruption of the marketplace,




                                                                                                                                China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   violations of judicial or administrative orders, or refusals to perform national defense duties.”72

                           The stipulations for redlist inclusion are similarly enumerated. Companies qualify for
                   inclusion on the Ministry of Emergency Management11 work safety redlist if they meet six criteria,
                   including no record of violations or significant work safety incidents by the company, its legal
                   representatives, or top safety management personnel within the past three years, the company has
                   issued a credit commitment letter promising to continue to operate in good faith, and the company
                   has not been blacklisted by any other state agency.73

                           As blacklists are established to address recurring or widespread violations which regulators
                   perceive as particularly problematic, they serve as an indication of China’s regulatory priorities
                   and shed some light on which regulations China’s judicial system struggles to enforce. The largest
                   blacklist in China — the “defaulter blacklist” — is controlled by the Supreme People’s Court, and
                   targets companies and individuals who fail to carry out court-ordered judgements, such as paying
                   fines or issuing public apologies.74 This list was created in response to the government’s long-
                   standing difficulties collecting on court-ordered payments due to debtors concealing collectable
                   assets. Another blacklist targets the oil and natural gas industry, identifying parties which break
                   laws related to “prospecting, development, storage and transport, processing and refining, import,
                   export, or wholesale” of energy products.75 In the years leading up to and immediately following
                   the release of this list, China’s state-run energy sector has been plagued with scandal. “At least
                   12 senior-level [National Energy Administration] officials have been investigated or charged with
                   corruption in the past decade... [and] officials from China’s oil and coal sector have been among
                   the most high-profile corruption cases ever since President Xi Jinping started the anti-corruption
                   campaign... .”76

                           Although blacklists are established by state agencies at the national level, it is the local
                   branches of those same agencies that typically carry out the blacklisting of companies registered
                   within their regional jurisdiction. For example, the blacklist for violations of product quality
                   statutes was established by SAMR’s national office, but it is SAMR’s county, municipal, and
                   provincial product quality inspection officials that conduct investigations on local companies and
                   add violating companies to the list. The 2020 Guiding Opinions on Further Regulation specify that
                   “[b]lacklisting decisions should generally not be made below the county-level and are reviewed at
                   the provincial level.” 77

                           Both blacklists and redlists are classified as PCI and are a matter of public record.78 When a
                   regulator places a company on a list, a record of that inclusion is added to the company’s national
                   social credit file and promulgated to all other regulators and the general public via the NCISP.
                   The NDRC is responsible for administering the NCISP and CSCS data sharing channels, and thus
                   plays a coordinating role in blacklist collation. Once non-compliant companies and consistently
                   compliant companies can be identified via the blacklist and redlist records in their centralized
triviumchina.com




                   CSCS files, regulators can take steps to either limit or extend that company’s market access.


                   11 Functions of the former State Administration of Work Safety were merged under the Ministry of Emergency
                   Management in the Chinese Government’s 2018 restructure.


                                                                                  28
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards




                   4.2 Ramifications of list inclusion: Unified Rewards and Punishments




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                           Inclusion on a list triggers the primary CSCS disciplinary mechanism, Unified Rewards
                   and Punishments, under which companies blacklisted by any regulator are subject to operational
                   sanctions imposed not only by the regulator that blacklisted them, but also by any other regulators
                   which have agreed to honor the specific blacklist on which the company is included.12 Conversely,
                   if a company is redlisted by one state agency, they become entitled to incentives offered by
                   multiple agencies. Such inter-agency cooperative agreements are ratified via Memorandums of
                   Understanding (MOUs) that stipulate which regulators will impose penalties in the case of blacklist
                   inclusion, or issue rewards in the case of redlist inclusion.13

                           Penalties leveraged against blacklisted companies vary slightly from blacklist to blacklist,
                   depending on which agencies have signed on to honor that list, but many of the same sanctions
                   appear on the majority of MOUs. The MOU underpinning the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
                   Affairs (MARA) blacklist targeting companies who have violated agricultural regulations provides
                   a standard example. Companies on this blacklist face 25 cross-sector sanctions including: restrictions
                   on participating in government procurement (imposed by the Ministry of Finance), restrictions on
                   issuing stocks and bonds (People’s Bank of China, Securities Regulatory Commission), restricted
                   use of government land (Ministry of Natural Resources), restricted access to financial subsidies
                   and preferential policies (multiple agencies), suspension of approvals on sci-tech research and
                   development projects (Ministry of Science and Technology), and more.79 In contrast, when
                   a transport engineering or construction company is placed on the Ministry of Transportation’s
                   redlist of trustworthy enterprises, it becomes entitled to 63 cross-sector benefits, including fast-
                   track handling of administrative approvals (multiple agencies), increased likelihood of winning
                   procurement bids (multiple agencies), reduced inspection rates (Ministry of Transport), priority
                   participation in preferential policies (NDRC), fast-tracked approval of import-export licenses for
                   steel and other goods (Ministry of Commerce), priority access to loans and financing as long as
                   financial credit history is sound (People’s Bank of China, China Banking and Insurance Regulatory
                   Commission), preferential treatment in real estate transactions (Ministry of Housing and Urban
                   Rural Development), priority assistance in patent applications and trademark registrations (China
                   Council for the Promotion of International Trade), and others.80


                   12 Unified Rewards and Punishments was incrementally established in a series of foundational social credit pol-
                   icies, including the Planning Outline and Opinions on Promoting Institutionalization of Integrity Construction, and
                   refined in two core documents: State Council, Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving the Joint Incentive
                   System for Trustworthiness and the Joint Disciplinary System for Dishonesty (关于建立完善守信联合激励和失
                   信联合惩戒制度加快推进社会诚信建设的指导意见), July 12, 2016. Translation. http://jszx.court.gov.cn/2550/
                   ExecuteStandard/14535.jhtml; National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China,
                   Guiding Opinions on Strengthening and Regulating the Management of the List of Targets for Joint Incentives for
                   Trustworthiness and Joint Punishment for Dishonesty (关于加强和规范守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒对象名单
                   管理工作的指导意见), October 30, 2017. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:h-
                   ze2bITWZMEJ:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/ghxwj/201711/t20171103_960925.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
triviumchina.com




                   clnk&gl=ph.

                   13 Complete list of MOUs available at China Law Translate, “Legal Documents Related to the Social Credit Sys-
                   tem - MOUs on Joint Rewards and Disciplinary Actions”. https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/social-credit-docu-
                   ments.


                                                                                  29
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards



                           The 2020 Guiding Opinions on Further Regulation draft includes calls for the creation




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   of a standardized index of lawful CSCS sanctions, stating that “[a]ll credit punishments must be
                   listed in a national catalog of penalties drafted in conjunction with experts and other concerned
                   parties, … [and that] an explicit legal basis must be provided for all possible punishments.”81 As
                   of writing, this catalog has not yet been released. Overall, the scope of CSCS punishments can
                   be summarized as “higher scrutiny or restrictions in authorizing necessary permits, credentials,
                   or approvals, higher scrutiny or restrictions on participation in government contract bidding or
                   authorization of use of government resources, restrictions on receiving / revocation of awards and
                   honors, increased routine regulatory oversight, [and] limits on receiving government benefits.” 82

                          At the consumer level, the Planning Outline and related policies also encourage the active
                   promotion of blacklists and redlists on government websites and in traditional and social media.
                   Regulators hope this will organically “result in the [public] praise of companies which operate
                   honestly and the censure of dishonest behavior,” thus adding an additional layer of pressure on
                   companies to comply.83

                            The CSCS also seeks to ensure that the consequences of blacklisting are inescapable by
                   extending the Unified Punishments imposed on blacklisted companies directly to responsible key
                   personnel — creating an additional concern not just for foreign companies, but for their key China-
                   based and even global executives. Each blacklist MOU defines a scope of responsibility in terms
                   of who will be personally subject to penalties in the event of blacklisting. This may include the
                   company’s legal representative, board members, actual controllers, and other parties responsible
                   for the violation.84 Under Unified Rewards and Punishments, responsible parties, including foreign
                   personnel, may be subject to penalties imposed by members of the Joint Inter-ministerial Council,
                   such as restrictions on luxury consumption including real estate transactions (imposed by Supreme
                   People’s Court), 85 restrictions on the purchase of plane and high-speed rail tickets (imposed by the
                   Civil Aviation Administration of China and China Railway), or ineligibility to serve in management
                   positions in industries where malfeasance may cause greater damage to public health or economic
                   stability, such as the finance and chemical sectors.


                   4.3 Rectifying violations: objections and credit repair
                           In a 2017 national CSCS policy, the NDRC emphasized that enabling credit restoration
                   and repair is one of the foundational principles of Unified Rewards and Punishments.86 Chinese
                   policymakers envision credit repair as a process through which “market players who have behaved
                   with slight dishonesty can reform and operate in good faith,” but also as a structured process with
                   “preconditions, procedures and limits.”87 That vision, however, has not yet been realized: while
                   Chinese regulators are currently taking steps to standardize the procedures for blacklist inclusion
                   and removal, these procedures are still undergoing review and finalization.

                           The draft 2020 Guiding Opinions on Further Regulation states that “before being
triviumchina.com




                   blacklisted, parties must be given notice of the reason and the legal basis and have a chance to
                   object. If blacklisted, they must be given a clear written decision indicating the reasons, [and]
                   rules for removal… .”88 Poor notification procedures have been a common complaint regarding



                                                                                  30
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards



                   the CSCS over the last several years, with blacklisted parties often unaware that they had been




                                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   blacklisted until they felt the effects of imposed penalties.14

                             There is currently no national, unified procedure for blacklist removal; as with many
                   features of the CSCS, general national guidelines have been provided by the NDRC,89 but in
                   practice, removal procedures are currently determined on a list-by-list and agency-by-agency
                   basis, and companies must typically apply for removal to the agency that controls the blacklist on
                   which they were placed. However, some generalizations about credit restoration procedures can be
                   made based on a collective overview of multiple credit repair documents.

                          First, as a general guideline, the NDRC segments blacklist behavior into three categories:
                   “generally untrustworthy,” “seriously untrustworthy,” and “particularly seriously untrustworthy.”90
                   Companies found to have engaged in “particularly serious untrustworthy behavior” may have their
                   business license revoked and credit may be irreparable. This designation includes:

                            ● Violations of food and drug safety, environmental protection, engineering
                              quality, production safety, product quality, and fire safety regulations
                            ● Bribes, tax evasion, debt default, failure to pay wages, illegal fund-raising,
                              contract fraud, pyramid schemes, unlicensed operations, infringement of
                              intellectual property rights, bid rigging, false advertising, infringement of
                              consumer rights, infringement of investor rights, serious Internet behavior
                              violations, and disruption of social order
                            ● “Other”

                           The definitions for the remaining two designations are less specific. “Serious untrustworthy
                   behavior” is defined as “acts that damage individual physical health or safety, seriously disrupt
                   social order, or constitute a failure to fulfill court orders or an infringement upon national security,
                   as well as other malicious acts defined by laws and regulations or the penalty-issuing agency.”
                   “General untrustworthy behavior” is defined as that which causes “marginal damage” to society.
triviumchina.com




                   14 Two U.S. multinationals indicated in interviews that headquarters was unaware that a branch office, located in a
                   different province, had been blacklisted until the deadline for objection had expired. Such complaints have also been
                   frequently reported in English-language media articles regarding the citizen social credit system.


                                                                                  31
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                       Forced out of the market: the case of OSI’s Shanghai Hsui

                                The blacklisting procedures and credit consequences for the most serious offenders can
                       be illustrated by the case of Shanghai Hsui, the Chinese subsidiary of U.S. holding company OSI
                       Group. A food supplier with customers including McDonald’s and KFC, Shanghai Hsui became
                       mired in scandal in 2014 when a local TV station reported “that staff were using expired meat,
                       falsifying production dates and violating other hygiene-related issues.”91

                                A 2016 court case found the firm guilty in 2016, after which the directly responsible em-
                       ployees within the company were sentenced to prison and fined for the crime of producing and
                       selling fake and inferior products, as were members of Shanghai Hsui’s holding company OSI.92

                               This had credit-related consequences: the local branch of SAMR revoked Shanghai Hsui’s
                       food production licenses, the company was designated as a “seriously untrustworthy producer”93
                       and added to SAMR’s food safety blacklist by Shanghai SAMR officials for a period of two years
                       (2016-2018). Additionally, three key responsible parties (the quality supervisor, factory manager
                       and planning director) within the organization were personally blacklisted for a period of five years
                       (2016-2021). The company reportedly lost RMB 6 billion in the year after the scandal,94 though
                       how much of those losses resulted from CSCS penalties rather from the scandal more generally, is
                       unknown. The company did not repair their credit — though OSI still operates in China, Shanghai
                       Hsui appears to have effectively halted operations.95



                           Generally speaking, regulators require companies to resolve the cause of the violation
                   before applying for rectification.96 Following correction of the underlying issue, rectification
                   procedures typically follow a fairly standard process, with some variation depending on the severity
                   of violation:97

                            1. The company applies to the government agency that issued the penalty.
                            2. The agency issues notification of acceptance or rejection of application.
                            3. If the application is accepted, the agency will call a meeting with the company’s
                               legal representative to discuss the issues, review the company’s corrective
                               steps, and require the representative to promise that there will be no repetition
                               of wrongdoing.15
                            4. The agency conducts an inspection or reviews evidence that corrective action
                               was taken.
                            5. The agency hands down a decision within five days of the inspection or review.
                            6. The decision is made public and pushed out through various data sharing
                               channels.
triviumchina.com




                   15 These interviews most often conducted by internal departments of state agencies dedicated to addressing
                   malfeasance and credit-based concerns. For example, the Department of Enterprise Management and Audit-Based
                   Control within the General Administration of Customs oversees violations and credit-related issues of importers and
                   exporters.


                                                                                  32
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards




                                                                                                                                   China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                           However, there is a mandatory minimum time that blacklisted companies must remain
                   on a list before they can apply for removal, regardless of how quickly the underlying problem is
                   rectified. These minimums vary from list to list and agency to agency, but inclusion typically lasts
                   for a minimum of three to six months and a maximum of five years depending on the severity of
                   the violation.98 Additionally, for “general dishonest behavior,” a removal may be facilitated if the
                   business owner undertakes a credit repair course given by a government-authorized credit services
                   organization.16

                           In practice, the procedures for credit repair in all but the most serious cases have alternately
                   been criticized as too difficult and too easy. Some anecdotal evidence describes a convoluted
                   bureaucratic process fraught with unresponsive personnel and long wait times for removal, even
                   once the conditions for removal have been met.99 In contrast, another report detailing one Chinese
                   business owner’s experience with blacklist removal described a lax and ineffectual process in
                   which government-approved third-party credit education courses are used as a loophole through
                   which the owners of blacklisted businesses may pay a nominal fee and take a brief examination
                   to be removed, and companies may be allowed to continue operating “without fully atoning for
                   their crimes.”100 This discrepancy may be due to the fact that state agencies have administrative
                   authority over their own lists, implementation and resources dedicated are not uniform from agency
                   to agency and location to location, thus the efficiency and clarity of credit repair procedures will
                   necessarily vary.

                   4.4 Market access controls in wider industry
                           The Planning Outline clearly frames the Party’s vision of the CSCS as an initiative that
                   should be adopted and applied cooperatively not only by regulators, but also integrated into wider
                   industry in the private sector. To that end, policymakers have experimented with several initiatives
                   that expand the influence of blacklists beyond the regulatory space. In 2016, prominent Chinese
                   tech players – Alibaba, Tencent, Jingdong, 58 Tongcheng, Didi, Baidu, Qihoo 360, and Shunfeng
                   Logistics – signed on to a government action plan to penalize e-commerce retailers, apps, and
                   other online businesses which had been blacklisted by regulators for fraudulent online activity
                   such as forging positive reviews, shipping empty parcels to bump sales numbers, or reselling user
                   data, activities which are illegal under Chinese consumer protection laws. Under this initiative,
                   tech platforms reference CSCS blacklist data and use it to impose penalties such as restricting the
                   creation of new user accounts, deleting accounts, restricting participation in marketing activities,
                   lowering on-platform ratings, or marking the company as a “risk” in search results.101

                         Additionally, several pilot initiatives empower industry associations to adopt and enforce
                   CSCS-style punishments and rewards within their sectors.102 For example, in April 2018, the

                   16 List of authorized credit repair agencies: Credit China, “List of Credit Report Service Providers” (信用报告
                   服务机构名单), https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xyxf/xygbfwjgmd/ ; Policy on credit repair through Credit China:
triviumchina.com




                   General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Notice on
                   Further Improving the “Credit China” Website and Local Credit Portal Website Mechanisms for Credit Repair of
                   Information on Administrative Punishments (国家发展改革委办公厅关于进一步完善“信用中国”网站及地方信
                   用门户网站行政处罚信息信用修复机制的通知), April 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201905/t20190514_962445.html.


                                                                                  33
                   Section 4 - CSCS Legal Mechanisms: Blacklists, Redlists, Penalties, and Rewards



                   NDRC invited the China Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry Association (CCPIA, 中国化学




                                                                                                                          China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   制药工业协会) to cooperate in one of the first government-plus-industry CSCS trials. Under the
                   partnership, the CCPIA was empowered to administer industry blacklists and redlists, establish
                   credit records for member companies, and enforce joint punishments on violators in the fields of
                   healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices.103

                           Technically speaking, industry associations, tech platforms, and other such organizations
                   are not legally required to participate in the CSCS in this manner. The draft of the 2020 Guiding
                   Opinions on Further Regulation states that no government body “shall force financial institutions,
                   credit service agencies, industry associations, chambers of commerce, news media, or other entities
                   to punish untrustworthy entities.” However, while these entities may not be “forced” to participate,
                   they may be encouraged or coerced to do so through invitations or suggestions by the NDRC or
                   the PBOC.

                           Depending on the effectiveness of these pilot projects, it is likely that the NDRC will seek
                   to broaden the Unified Rewards and Punishments dragnet by working to extend the effectiveness
                   of blacklists through enlisting participation from a broader body of industry actors. The overall
                   ubiquity of the CSCS will, in part, depend on how wide this dragnet becomes. Punishing and
                   rewarding firms, however, is not the only purpose for which blacklist data, and PCI more widely,
                   is used. It is also used to help state agencies determine where to concentrate limited regulatory
                   resources.
triviumchina.com




                                                                                  34
                                                                                                                               China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 5
                   Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment

                            The CSCS is part of China’s larger shift toward a data-driven regulatory regime,104 a shift
                   motivated in large part by the need to alleviate burdens on regulators whose resources are stretched
                   thin.105 Rather than applying the same level of regulatory scrutiny to all enterprises, Beijing hopes
                   to move toward a more targeted scheme wherein companies are segmented according to their
                   social credit: those with good credit are given less attention, and those with poor credit become the
                   target of tighter regulatory focus and control. This was expressed in the 2019 Guiding Opinions,
                   which stated:106

                           For market entities with good credit and which are deemed to be low risk, the
                           frequency of inspections can be reasonably lowered to reduce the impact on normal
                           production and operation; for market entities with average credit risk, random
                           inspections can be conducted at regular rates and frequency; and for those market
                           entities that are untrustworthy and high-risk, the inspection frequency can be
                           appropriately increased.

                          This shift is also intended to invite greater participation in the market by lowering the barriers
                   to market entry, and “working toward a comprehensive and systematic monitoring of companies’
                   day-to-day behavior, continuously testing their trustworthiness as they actively participate in the
                   market.”107 To this end, policymakers are supporting the development and deployment of various
                   segmentation and grading schemes, as well as risk prediction models and platforms, based on PCI,
                   MCI, and independently-collected data.

                   5.1 Corporate social credit “scores”
                           Regulatory bodies, private companies, and industry institutions are taking advantage
                   of publicly available CSCS files (and the PCI they contain) to develop a variety of grades
                   and ratings which reflect various assessments of a given company’s operational and financial
                   soundness.

                           These grades do not interact to form a unified, algorithmically controlled “social credit
                   scoring system.” Rather, at the encouragement of the NDRC, these grades have been independently
                   developed by public or private sector actors to reflect a discrete aspect of a given company’s
                   credibility. For example, regulatory bodies have developed grades to measure level of compliance,
                   private credit rating agencies are developing grades to measure financial creditworthiness, and
                   industry bodies are developing grades to measure product and service quality. The factor that
                   unifies these dozens, if not hundreds, of “social credit grades” is that they are all based, to varying
                   degrees, on PCI, and that the NDRC has encouraged and supported their development. These
                   grades may be loosely grouped into four types based on their intended purpose and issuing body
triviumchina.com




                   (see overview in Table 2).

                          1. Compliance grades: China’s state agencies have been grading enterprises on regulatory
                   compliance long before the advent of the CSCS, and though these grades are as varied as the


                                                                      35
                   Section 5 - Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment



                   agencies that develop and issue them, with the emergence of the PCI dataset under the CSCS, many




                                                                                                                                   China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   compliance scoring algorithms have been adjusted to at least partially base grades on PCI data.
                   Some grades are standardized at the national level, such as the State Taxation Administration (STA)
                   taxpayer rating system108 and the Ministry of Transport grading system for companies engaged in
                   the construction of roads and waterways.109 Others are created by regulators at the local level, such
                   as the Datong Health and Family Planning Commission’s credit grades for city hospitals.110

                           Many — though not all — of the compliance grading systems operate on a letter-based
                   scale (A-D), underpinned by a points matrix (90-100 points equals Grade A). Under the STA’s
                   grading system, companies start with 100 points (Grade A), and points are deducted for any one
                   of 95 specific violations. For example, companies who are found in arrears of amounts equal to or
                   in excess of RMB 50,000 will have 11 points deducted from their overall grading matrix (which
                   would result in a Grade B), and three points or fewer deducted for arrears of lesser amounts.
                   Under the CSCS, blacklist inclusion or other significant incidents of non-compliance count heavily
                   against compliance grades, often resulting in an immediate assignment to the lowest grade level.

                           Compliance grades determine how companies will be treated by the grade-issuing agency.
                   In the case of the STA, taxpayers with higher grades will receive preferential treatment by the
                   agency, those with middling grades receive neither positive nor negative attention, while those at
                   lower grade levels will be subject to increased STA scrutiny.

                          Compliance grading is still evolving; many of the policies underpinning effective
                   compliance grading systems are still in a trial phase, and agencies at all levels of government
                   continue to announce the impending release of new or adjusted grading schemes.17

                          2. Quality grades: The central government is also encouraging China’s industry associations
                   and Chambers of Commerce to develop PCI-based grading systems for their member companies.
                   A 2016 policy urged such organizations to “cooperate with qualified third-party credit service
                   agencies to conduct assessments on members’ credit status and improve member credit evaluation
                   mechanisms.”111 At the national and local levels, organizations such as the China Industrial Gases
                   Industry Association (CIGIA), the China Construction Machinery Association112 and the Wuhan
                   Software Industry Association113 issue credit grades based on a combination of the association’s
                   own data collected on member companies, self-submitted data by member companies, and PCI.
                   The CIGIA grading matrix, which is highly representative of those released by other industry
                   associations, considers five categories of information: basic company information, competitiveness,
                   management ability, financial strength, and the PCI dataset, of which PCI data is given the heaviest
                   weight, amounting to 30 percent of the overall grade.114 The ramifications of a poor quality grade
                   are not entirely clear, but it is likely that these grades will be used to promote “industry self-
                   governance,” under which industry associations put pressure on companies with low grades to

                   17 Example: Announced Ministry of Ecology and Environment corporate compliance grading system for environ-
triviumchina.com




                   mental protection: Ministry of Ecology and Environment of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions on Further
                   Deepening Ecological and Environmental Regulatory Services to Promote High-Quality Economic Development(关
                   于进一步深化生态环境监管服务推动经济高质量发展的意见), September 8, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.mee.gov.cn/xxgk2018/xxgk/xxgk03/201909/t20190911_733474.
                   html.


                                                                         36
                   Section 5 - Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment



                   improve their performance, as well as disseminate grades to the general public. Additional clarity




                                                                                                                                     China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   regarding how industry association grades interact with the CSCS is expected in the coming years,
                   as regulators are pushing for the formulation of rules that define a standardized system for industry’s
                   involvement in social credit.115

                           3. Financial Credit Grades: Financial credit rating agencies (CRAs) play a key role in
                   the CSCS (details in Section 6.2), and China’s credit ratings industry is developing alongside the
                   social credit system. The NDRC has encouraged credit rating agencies to take advantage of PCI
                   availability, and to use it in conjunction with their own data and proprietary algorithms to develop
                   enterprise credit ratings indicative of financial risk. CRAs then supply regulators and industry
                   associations with rating results which support their own assessments.116

                           4. The Comprehensive Public Credit Grade (公共信用综合评价): In 2019, the NDRC
                   announced the impending release of the “Comprehensive Public Credit Grade,” which will loosely
                   serve as a net assessment of a company’s overall social credit profile. Under the Comprehensive
                   grading system, a rating of “excellent,” “good,” “fair,” or “poor” is assigned to every registered
                   entity in China.18 The exact metrics that contribute to a company’s final Comprehensive Grade
                   have not been made public, but regulators have stated that these grades are primarily based on PCI,
                   and that they may also take compliance grades, quality grades, financial grades into account.117

                           The NDRC announced the completion of the first round of Comprehensive grading in
                   September 2019, stating that 33 million companies in China had been assigned a Comprehensive
                   grade, but only a tiny fraction of those have been made public, with the “excellent” and “poor”
                   graded companies in the natural gas, coal, travel, and transportation sectors published on the Credit
                   China website.118 It is currently not possible for companies to look up their own Comprehensive
                   grade, and such grades have not been integrated into public CSCS files or databases.

                           The NDRC has stated that once fully implemented, Comprehensive grades will serve as a
                   general indicator of a company’s social credit standing, and are issued as a guidepost to help local
                   regulators decide how much regulatory scrutiny will be applied to a given company.119 Companies
                   with “excellent” or “good” Comprehensive Grades will receive less attention from local regulators,
                   while those with “fair” and “poor” grades will be interviewed and urged to rectify their behavior.
                   In the case of “poor” grades, key personnel may be required to undergo credit training courses.120

                           One common misperception regarding corporate social credit grades is that a company
                   receiving a low grade will be blacklisted as a result of that grade. In reality, this works the other
                   way around: companies receive low grades if they have been blacklisted. If a company has been
                   blacklisted based on regulatory violations, the blacklist record is included in the company’s CSCS
                   file as PCI. Considering that Compliance, Quality, Financial and Comprehensive Grades are

                   18 Launch of Comprehensive Public Credit Grading system announced in: General Office of the State Council of
triviumchina.com




                   the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Accelerating the
                   Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅
                   关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2019-07/16/con-
                   tent_5410120.htm.


                                                                          37
                   Section 5 - Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment



                   determined based on the PCI in a company’s CSCS file, a blacklist record would result in lower




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   grades across the board.121 Thus, it is fair to say that grades are indicative of a company’s social
                   credit standing, but do not determine social credit standing. Social credit standing is determined
                   first and foremost by blacklists and redlists.

                           Although grades are certainly a crucial feature of the CSCS, the issuance of grades is not
                   the system’s paramount purpose, and we assess that the CSCS should not be understood as a
                   grading mechanism. Rather, grades should be understood as one of the many weapons in social
                   credit’s new market regulation arsenal.

                   Table 2: Types of enterprise grades based on PCI19

                                          Comprehensive             Compliance-based       Quality Grades      Financial credit
                                          Public Credit             grades                                     grades
                                          Grade

                    Issuer                NDRC, in                  Various regulators     Industry            Private enterprise
                                          cooperation with                                 associations        credit rating agencies
                                          other regulators

                    What they             Overall status of         Compliance with laws   Service and         Investment risk
                    measure               company                   and regulations        product quality,
                                                                                           compliance,
                                                                                           operational
                                                                                           soundness

                    Rating scale          Excellent                 Usually letter-based   Various             Various
                                          Good                      (e.g., A-D)
                                          Fair
                                          Poor

                    What ratings          Level of regulatory       Level of market        Not clear -         Access to loans and
                    indicate              scrutiny                  access                 intended to         investment
                                                                                           promote market
                                                                                           awareness
                                                                                           and consumer
                                                                                           advocacy

                    Who gets one          Every registered          Most companies will    Members             All companies rated
                                          entity in China           receive several from   of industry         by that particular
                                                                    different regulators   associations, any   agency
                                                                                           companies listed
                                                                                           on app



                   5.2 Risk monitoring platforms
                           There is little available information regarding the degree to which the issuance of PCI-
                   based grades is automated. However, automation of PCI and MCI analysis is being piloted on a
                   series of regulatory platforms designed to support the process of determining targets for regulatory
triviumchina.com




                   scrutiny. The largest of these platforms was developed under the Internet Plus Regulation

                   19 Categorization matrix created by Trivium China from comprehensive review of regulations underpinning multi-
                   ple PCI-based grading systems, official statements on purposes of various grade types.


                                                                             38
                   Section 5 - Targeted Regulatory Resource Deployment



                   initiative (互联网+监管), a sub-segment of the national “Internet Plus” initiative, which aims to




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   “deeply integrate network innovations with various fields of the economy and society.”122 Internet
                   Plus Regulation centers around the construction of a centralized digital platform for market
                   regulation that aggregates PCI, MCI, and non-social credit datasets such as those provided by law
                   enforcement,123 then segments companies into buckets that determine the frequency at which they
                   will be inspected.124 The Internet Plus Regulation platform is supported by technologies built by
                   China’s internet tech giants, Huawei, Tencent, Alibaba, and funded by the State Council for a total
                   of at least RMB 527.8 million.125

                           In 2019, the State Council selected the provinces of Hebei, Shanxi, Zhejiang, Anhui, and
                   Fujian, along with the cities of Beijing, Yantai, Luohe, Guangzhou, Foshan, and Chongqing, to pilot
                   Internet Plus Regulation in their jurisdictions.126 Of these, the Zhejiang pilot — nicknamed “531X”20
                   — is by far the nation’s most advanced, both technologically and in terms of implementation: the
                   platform consolidates PCI and MCI and a grading system for local enterprises,127 and according
                   to project progress reports, has collected 2.4 billion PCI records, and connects with 315 “credit-
                   related business systems across the province”.128

                            These programs are part of a national push towards “algorithmic regulation,”129 the
                   deployment of big datasets — including social credit datasets — to augment human decision-
                   making. While not inherently dangerous in itself, the emergence of algorithmic regulation has
                   given rise to considerable debate about its fairness, transparency, and legality. Among the most
                   critical of these is the issue of “algorithmic accountability,” or the inherent difficulty in verifying
                   the fairness or accuracy of machine-generated recommendations “owing to the sophisticated
                   computational processes upon which [algorithms] rely and their protection from disclosure … , yet
                   [they are] capable of exercising or informing decision-making power with highly consequential
                   effects.”130 Neither algorithmic regulation nor the questions it raises are unique to China, but
                   the deployment of automated, non-public-facing corporate segmentation mechanisms under an
                   authoritarian government with an immature data privacy regime raises additional questions, not
                   only in terms of how companies may assess algorithmic fairness, but how they might object in the
                   event of unfair treatment.
triviumchina.com




                   20 531X is so named because it grades five targets (individuals, companies, social organizations, institutions, and
                   government agencies), and combines three mechanisms (credit standards, credit regulation, and credit penalties) in
                   one unified system.


                                                                            39
                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 6
                   Lending and Finance

                           The 1999 social credit treatise, The National Credit Management System, was focused first
                   and foremost on describing how the social credit system could be used crack down on corporate
                   malfeasance. But the treatise also addressed a secondary issue, namely, China’s underdeveloped
                   financial credit system for the assessment of lending risk. Though these two issues — corporate
                   malfeasance and credit-based lending — appear unrelated, the treatise explicitly connects them. It
                   does so by defining the idea of “credit” in expansive terms, combining the financial definition of
                   “credit” or “creditworthiness” (i.e., the willingness and ability to repay one’s debts131) with a more
                   basic notion of one’s overall reputability (i.e., honesty, promise-keeping, and integrity).132

                           Although China’s financial credit and social credit systems are distinct, areas of practical
                   overlap do exist. Most notably, social credit data is now used as a supplement to financial credit
                   data in the assessment of lending risk.133

                           Indeed, the CSCS and its regulatory underpinnings cannot be wholly separated from
                   traditional financial credit assessments, and their deficiencies in the Chinese market. Specifically,
                   lenders and regulators in China have long struggled to assess the creditworthiness of private
                   business, particularly Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), as we explain below. In
                   addition, the poor track record and politicization of bond ratings further underscore the need for a
                   more accurate mechanism for lenders and investors to assess a company’s ability to repay its debt
                   obligations. In this section we briefly examine these two key deficiencies of assessing traditional
                   financial credit in China and look at the development of the CSCS as it relates to those deficiencies.

                   6.1 Lending risk assessment for MSMEs
                           Assessing financial risk for private enterprises, particularly for entrepreneurs and MSMEs,
                   has historically posed an intractable problem for Chinese lenders. This challenge has stemmed
                   largely from the fact that China has the world’s largest unbanked population (225 million citizens
                   do not hold an account at any financial institution),134 low rates of credit card use,135 and a largely
                   collateral-driven system for assessing credit risk.136 Moreover, as of 2018, the PBOC’s Financial
                   Credit Database included credit histories on only 35 percent of Chinese citizens,137 a stark contrast
                   to the 88 percent of American citizens with trackable credit histories.138 Given that personal and
                   corporate financial credit records serve as one substitute for trust between lenders and borrowers,
                   the dearth of records is one of several factors that has resulted in an over-reliance on collateral-
                   based lending, especially for small, family-owned businesses and other entities without ready
                   access to China’s capital markets.

                           Policymakers have sought in vain to address this issue for at least the last two decades.
                   In 1998, Premier Zhu Rongji — the man responsible for advocating initial research into the
triviumchina.com




                   social credit system — sent instructions to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
                   requiring it to establish a credit department focusing on SME loans.139 A year later, he instructed
                   government officials in Zhejiang province — China’s most SME-heavy provincial economy — to
                   work with banks to make breakthroughs in supporting SMEs, and explicitly asked banks to lend


                                                                     40
                   Section 6 - Lending and Finance



                   to SMEs without requiring collateral.140 Zhu’s efforts failed to solve the problem: 75.3 percent of




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   China’s bank loans still go to large enterprises which have access to the assets needed to back large
                   debts and the political capital to secure funding,141 and policymakers have continued to struggle to
                   formulate an adequate solution.

                           More recently, throughout the 2018-2020 time period, the central government has
                   repeatedly urged banks to increase lending to small and micro-enterprises,142 and relatedly, officials
                   have attempted to leverage CSCS data to ameliorate the lack of risk assessment metrics through a
                   joint NDRC and China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission (CBIRC) initiative called
                   Xinyidai (信易贷).143 Xinyidai encourages the development of PCI-based financial risk assessment
                   models specifically aimed at enabling SME loans. These models have been developed both by the
                   central government as a service to banks and lenders and by banks and other lenders themselves,
                   with the hope that access to such risk assessments will make lending to SMEs both more viable
                   and financially attractive.

                   6.2 The corporate bond market and credit ratings
                           In addition to the weaknesses in China’s credit assessment mechanisms that have held back
                   bank lending and other forms of indirect financing to private companies and SMEs, unreliable
                   corporate bond ratings have also held back development of the bond market and a commensurate
                   increase in direct financing for private companies.144 Specifically, tight state control over the
                   corporate bond market has resulted in a disempowered, corrupt ratings industry whose ratings have
                   historically been seen as largely ornamental:

                            Chinese credit rating agencies (CRAs) are a direct product of Chinese regulators’
                            mandate that all public bonds have to be rated. With a regulatory captive customer
                            base, the Chinese rating industry, as a whole, has less incentive and pressure to
                            provide a high-quality product: informative credit ratings. Furthermore, there is a
                            generally negative perception of the quality of Chinese bond ratings. The fact that
                            the vast majority of Chinese bonds are rated AA or better has raised doubts about
                            the accuracy of Chinese ratings and concerns of over-optimism of Chinese CRAs
                            and/or rating shopping.145

                           The birth of the CSCS directly coincides with China’s early attempts to reform the financial
                   credit system and improve the quality and reliability of domestically issued corporate credit ratings
                   in the early 2000s.146 Indeed, The National Credit Management System devotes several chapters
                   to the topic. The treatise raises the point that the issuance of accurate ratings depends on access to
                   dynamic data that assesses the “Five Cs of Credit Analysis,” or the Character, Capacity, Capital,
                   Collateral, and Conditions of the bond issuer.147 We assess that both PCI and MCI offer alternative
                   metrics that could fulfill a broader or deeper assessment of “character” metrics, which credit rating
                   agencies may have had difficulty obtaining in the past. More generally, a range of policymakers and
                   policy advisors increasingly see the ability to rate companies’ creditworthiness as a key element
triviumchina.com




                   of financial soft power, and a driver of a country’s ability to influence and partake in global capital
                   markets, as discussed in Section 10.4.

                            This drive to improve China’s domestic ability to rate credit has taken place outside of CSCS


                                                                     41
                   Section 7 - Technical Infrastructure



                   development and led to a proliferation of entities involved in domestic credit rating. In 2005, only




                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   five state-owned CRAs were authorized by the government to issue ratings for corporate bonds
                   and other debt instruments,148 but in mid-2019, 130 private sector financial credit rating agencies149
                   were licensed to issue enterprise credit reports and grades. As the CSCS has been rolled out, these
                   entities have been encouraged to align their rating mechanisms with the system by basing credit
                   grades on PCI in addition to their own MCI.150 The relationship between the central government
                   and these credit rating agencies is cooperative, and data does not only flow one way; the MCI
                   obtained by these agencies — including the grades they issue — are passed back to the government
                   for use in determining regulatory enforcement targets,151 and play a part in informing the results of
                   enterprise credit ratings issued by local governments and industry associations.152
triviumchina.com




                                                                    42
                                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 7
                   Technical Infrastructure

                           Beijing’s ultimate vision for the CSCS of seamless nationwide PCI sharing cannot be
                   realized without the deployment of databases, servers and software that enable the collection,
                   processing, and sharing of PCI. Thus, an understanding of CSCS technical infrastructure is critical
                   to assessing the overall feasibility of the CSCS and the technical challenges its implementation
                   presents. Here, we undertake a brief review of CSCS system architecture.

                            The deployment of PCI databases is highly decentralized, and each state agency and local
                   government is responsible for the development, installation, and maintenance of their own hardware
                   and software. Social credit platform contracts are farmed out to third-party tech companies via
                   government procurement processes, and procurement records indicate that at least 100 government
                   bodies have undertaken such projects.21 Deployment costs vary from platform to platform, with
                   district- and city-level builds typically costing approximately RMB 3 million,22 while the State
                   Administration for Market Regulation has spent upward of RMB 400 million on national rollout of
                   its Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System alone.23

                           Although some of these databases are not accessible to the general public, as of April
                   2020, 11 state agencies operate sector-specific, public-facing social credit and blacklist databases
                   to publicize their own agency’s social credit data, such as the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural
                   Development153 the Ministry of Finance,154 the Ministry of Culture and Tourism,155 and the Supreme
                   People’s Court.156 An additional four agencies — the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, the
                   Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the Ministry of Human
                   Resources and Social Security — have announced plans to build such databases.24

                   21 Data on CSCS projects collected from the Ministry of Finance portal for government bidding and procurement,
                   which holds several thousand documents related to social credit technical infrastructure projects. Search terms that
                   return relevant results include “social credit system (社会信用体系),” “public credit information (公共信用信息)”,
                   “National Credit Information Sharing Platform (全国信用信息共享平台)”, “credit information platform” (信用信
                   息平台), among others. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.ccgp.gov.cn.

                   22 Average cost of district- and city-level social credit contracts collected from Ministry of Finance portal for gov-
                   ernment bidding and procurement. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.ccgp.gov.cn.

                   23 Average cost of district- and city-level social credit contracts collected from Ministry of Finance portal for gov-
                   ernment bidding and procurement. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.ccgp.gov.cn.

                   24 Announcements from state agencies on the construction or imminent implementation of sector credit databases:
                   Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China, “National Working Conference on Science
                   and Technology Supervision and Integrity Construction Held in Beijing” (全国科技监督与诚信建设工作会议在北
                   京召开), December 2, 2019. Translation. http://www.most.gov.cn/kjbgz/201912/t20191202_150272.htm. ; Ministry
                   of Human Resources and Social Security of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the Ministry of
                   Human Resources and Social Security on the Establishment of a Unified National Social Insurance Public Service
triviumchina.com




                   Platform (人力资源社会保障部关于建立全国统一的社会保险公共服务平台的指导意见), September 24, 2019.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:b3uNvsWZS8wJ:www.mohrss.gov.cn/gkml/
                   zcfg/gfxwj/201909/t20190927_335478.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph ; Ministry of Civil Affairs of the Peo-
                   ple’s Republic of China, “National Credit Information Sharing Platform (Phase II) Project - Announcement of Tender
                   for Software and Hardware Equipment and System Integration” (全国信用信息共享平台（二期）项目（民政部


                                                                            43
                   Section 7 - Technical Infrastructure



                           Major Chinese tech players have won bids for certain aspects of national-level SCS




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   data platforms – Baidu for buildout and upgrade of the Credit China website,157 Tencent for the
                   development of the Credit China mobile app and service support system,158 Neusoft for software
                   related to the National Credit Information Sharing Platform159 – but overall, contracts have not been
                   concentrated in the hands of a few select firms. Deals have been awarded to more than 50 domestic
                   companies at the national level, and hundreds of vendors have been involved in provincial, urban,
                   and district systems.

                   7.1 Hardware and software
                           Just as there is no one company responsible for social credit platform buildout, there is also
                   no single hardware or software package for CSCS systems, thus the infrastructure that drives these
                   databases is as varied as the companies that build them. Common U.S. enterprise data technologies
                   are used in some cases, including Oracle databases,160 Windows Server operating systems, and
                   physical servers running on Intel processors,161 while domestic technology is preferred in others at
                   the discretion of the commissioning department.

                           What unifies these disparate systems is that they are built to adhere to the national technical
                   standards framework for PCI exchange (as introduced in Section 3), and are enabled to share
                   data across the NCISP via a standardized digital uplink based on RSA-encrypted public/private
                   keys, which allows for secure transmission of credit records with no dependency on the type of
                   underlying hardware or software used for data storage.162 The simplicity and modularity of this
                   transfer mechanism allows the transfer of credit information from any enabled server, and appears
                   to have been designed to unify a variety of domestic platforms.

                   7.2 Next-generation technologies
                          Reports that appear to link the CSCS to next-generation technologies such as facial
                   recognition-based surveillance feeds, remote sensing output, or auto-flagged social media content
                   have resulted in concern among foreign companies and governments that the CSCS penalties and
                   CSCS-related scores are driven by data collected through these sources. Although the NCISP is
                   ushering in a new age of government data aggregation and sharing, a review of the PCI technical
                   standards, PCI catalogs, and blacklist MOUs clarifies that CSCS records hold PCI only, and there
                   is no input channel through which next-generation data sources can feed information directly
                   into CSCS files (see Section 3). PCI records are still manually generated, collected, and input by
                   inspectors and civil servants.163

                           However, there are several examples of next-generation technologies being piloted in
                   CSCS-adjacent capacities, such as the use of remote sensing technologies to collect operational
                   data used to identify a potential violation. For example, the Environmental Protection Bureau of
                   the Yichun Economic Development Zone has required companies to install on-site instruments
                   to track and measure pollution emissions.164 Similarly, regulators in the Changshu Economic &
                   Technological Development Zone employ real-time monitoring of emissions, sewage, pH levels,
triviumchina.com




                   and power consumption, and conduct inspections whenever abnormal values are detected.165 The

                   建设部分）软硬件设备及系统集成招标公告), March 13, 2018. Translation. http://www.mca.gov.cn/article/gk/
                   zfcg/201803/20180315008058.shtml.


                                                                     44
                   Section 7 - Technical Infrastructure



                   application of these tools is only indirectly related to the CSCS, in that an irregularity identified




                                                                                                                              China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   using these technologies may lead to an inspection, which may in turn lead to a penalty, which
                   would then appear in CSCS records as PCI. There is currently no known instance in which
                   automated operational data collection leads to automated penalty issuance and CSCS record
                   generation without human intervention. In other words, although technology and automation may
                   be employed to detect violations or trigger inspection, regulatory action resulting in the issuance of
                   a penalty or blacklisting is only conducted by humans within an agency.

                          CSCS data is also likely to play a role in China’s experimental smart city regulation
                   platforms, such as the Alibaba-built Hangzhou “City Brain.” Sources indicate the City Brain may
                   employ CSCS data to automate the determination of eligibility for government subsidies. Once
                   such systems are complete, it is likely that companies with clean social credit records will receive
                   immediate approval and funds will be released within minutes or hours of application.166

                            Additionally, 2019 Guiding Opinions call for the use of both big data and artificial
                   intelligence specifically in relation to regulatory “early warning systems” like the Internet Plus
                   initiative. As “the defining characteristic of big data is the capacity to search, aggregate, and cross-
                   reference large datasets for analysis to identify previously undetectable patterns,”167 it is likely
                   that intended applications of these technologies center around the employment of AI algorithms
                   against large datasets of PCI and MCI in order to unearth previously undiscovered patterns in
                   the available metrics which might more narrowly identify which companies will be subject to
                   greater regulatory attention, or point to impending market instability or consumer safety issues.
                   However, there is currently no evidence to suggest that any highly advanced market or operational
                   risk prediction models are in active use, and existing research on the issue has concluded that
                   current implementation is “crude.”168

                           These systems are likely to become increasingly sophisticated as algorithms are upgraded,
                   PCI data sharing becomes uniform across provinces, and MCI sources are further defined. As these
                   technologies become ever more ubiquitous, issues such as algorithmic transparency — the relative
                   ease or difficulty with which humans can understand the basis for decisions made by computers, as
                   well as whether or not those algorithms “formalize and mask biases embedded in the data on which
                   they are trained”169 — are likely to come to the fore over the next 10-20 years, particularly given
                   divergent U.S. and Chinese values regarding data transparency.
triviumchina.com




                                                                     45
                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 8
                   Implementation Status

                           The CSCS is operational, that much is clear. CSCS files exist, they are being populated with
                   PCI collected by government bodies across the country, national agencies and local governments
                   are layering social credit into their regulatory processes by developing blacklists, redlists, grading
                   systems, and pilot projects relevant to their sectors, as well as updating existing regulations to tie
                   them into the CSCS.

                           Still, assessing the exact degree to which the CSCS has been implemented has poses an
                   intractable challenge. CSCS files exist, but for how many companies in China? They are being
                   populated, but how accurately and reliably? CSCS policies exist, but with what degree of national
                   coverage? This difficulty is partially due to the system’s enormous size and scope, its many
                   moving parts, and the broad spectrum of public and private sector players involved. Nationwide
                   implementation of the CSCS requires a complex amalgamation of policymaking, technical
                   infrastructure deployment, government- and society-wide process adjustments, and inter-agency
                   and inter-locality cooperation.

                           More importantly, Beijing has never spelled out its end game for the CSCS, and it is
                   impossible to assess progress made toward a goal that has not been defined. Concrete milestones
                   or phases of implementation have not been officially identified in policy — either of the CSCS or
                   the broader social credit system, but the Planning Outline does enumerate several vague targets
                   that Beijing intends to meet by the end of 2020:

                          By 2020, having essentially established systems of fundamental laws, regulations
                          and standards for social credit; having essentially built a credit investigation
                          system that covers the entire society credit on the foundation of sharing information
                          resources, having essentially completed credit supervision and management
                          systems, having a relatively complete credit services market system, and giving full
                          play to mechanisms encouraging trustworthiness and punishing untrustworthiness.
                          Making clear headway in the establishment of government affairs, commercial, and
                          social creditworthiness and in judicial credibility, with a substantial rise in market
                          and social satisfaction levels. Spreading stronger awareness of creditworthiness in
                          the entire society, noticeably improving the economic and social development credit
                          environment, and a significant improvement in the economic and social order.170

                            Though this obscure phrasing does not offer clues to Beijing’s long-term goals for the CSCS,
                   it does indicate that the immediate objective is to make clear progress in laying the technical, legal,
                   and inter-agency cooperative groundwork upon which the CSCS can take root. Thus, as outlined
                   in Section 1, we assess that a “fully implemented” CSCS would be characterized by three features:
                   seamless data aggregation, a standardized legal and policy foundation, and a well-defined penalty
triviumchina.com




                   and reward ecosystem.

                   8.1 Seamless data aggregation



                                                                     46
                   Section 8 - Implementation Status



                           The foundational technologies that support the storage and transfer of PCI between




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   government agencies and the central CSCS repository are largely in place, but the flow of data
                   between state agencies and central CSCS files is currently patchy, and the rollout of data sharing
                   infrastructure is erratic, due to inconsistent levels of CSCS implementation from agency to agency.

                            From a technical perspective, the reliable transfer of data between various government
                   bodies and central CSCS files required the establishment of a standardized social credit record
                   identification system which would allow PCI — regardless of where and how it was generated
                   — to be associated with the CSCS files of the corresponding company. As outlined in Section 3,
                   the Unified Social Credit Identifier (USCI) system was established in 2015 to meet this need, and
                   USCIs have now been assigned to most registered entities nationwide. As of end-2019, China
                   recorded a total of 38.5 million domestically-registered enterprises (企业), nearly 100 percent of
                   which had been issued a USCI, and an additional 82 million registered individual proprietorships
                   (个体工商户), with a reported 71.5 percent covered by USCIs.171 Once a legal entity has been
                   assigned a USCI, social credit data may be associated with that entity, and thus that entity’s social
                   credit file can be considered established. As the majority of companies have received a USCI, this
                   suggests that CSCS files have been established on the majority of registered entities in China.

                           The fidelity of the data stored within those files, however, is currently weak. Our analysis of
                   the social credit records stored in ten standalone state agency credit databases, compared against the
                   records displayed in the central CSCS files, showed significant gaps in accuracy and completeness.
                   For example, though 89 percent of blacklist records issued by the General Administration of
                   Customs (GAC) and State Taxation Administration (STA) appear in Credit China’s central CSCS
                   records database, blacklist records from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Rural Development
                   (MoHURD) are not currently included, and only approximately 25 percent of records from the
                   Ministry of Transport and 20 percent of records from the Ministry of Industry and Information
                   Technology are included. We found that data completeness between other agencies ranged
                   from 10 to 90 percent, indicating that large gaps still exist in inter-agency data transfer. Chinese
                   policymakers are aware of these deficiencies, as the notice accompanying the release of the 2019
                   PCI Catalog noted:

                            ...there are still problems such as the absence of important credit records, a lack of
                            timeliness [in data transfer], [issues with the] integrity of information, and there is
                            a large gap between the overall information collected and the demand for diverse
                            and high-quality information from government regulators.172

                          At the local level, implementation of CSCS data storage infrastructure is equally non-
                   uniform. Shanghai is a leading locality in terms of infrastructure buildout. As of end-2018, the
                   Shanghai urban credit database had centralized earmarked data from 88 local government bodies
                   and included a reported 11.3 million records on enterprises.173 Other large metropolitan areas, such
                   as Shenzhen and Nanjing, have similarly advanced programs, still others have built databases but
triviumchina.com




                   not yet implemented them fully, and many small city governments have not yet deployed even
                   foundational data collection infrastructure.174

                            As the scope of MCI has not yet been defined, assessing the status of its aggregation is not


                                                                      47
                   Section 8 - Implementation Status



                   yet possible, but it is safe to say that MCI aggregation lags significantly behind PCI.




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   8.2 Standardized policy and legal foundation
                           At the national level, the basic principles that govern the CSCS — data aggregation,
                   blacklists and redlists, Unified Rewards and Punishments — have been broadly established in
                   policy, but several critical facets of the system are still undergoing standardization. These include
                   solidifying the legal basis for Unified Punishments, standardizing the procedures for blacklisting,
                   and standardizing the procedures for credit repair.

                            These standardizations are necessary because China’s typical policymaking process,
                   under which the central government sets policy direction and strategy while leaving the practical
                   details of implementation up to local governments, has proved problematic when applied to the
                   CSCS, an initiative which due to its cooperative inter-agency nature requires a high degree of
                   top-down coordination. The discretionary power relegated to local governments has resulted in
                   non-uniform applications of CSCS blacklists and penalties at the local level. In some cases, local
                   regulators have abruptly leveraged the CSCS or developed new blacklists to clamp down on issues
                   of immediate concern. This phenomenon was particularly evident during the early days of the
                   COVID-19 outbreak in China, as city governments scrambled to enforce compliance with new virus
                   containment and work resumption regulations. On February 17, 2020, the city of Xiamen released
                   regulations stating that companies found engaging in price hikes, hoarding, making unreasonable
                   profits from the epidemic, or manufacturing and selling products such as fake and shoddy masks,
                   would be penalized under the CSCS.175 In other instances, local officials attempted to leverage
                   the citizen social credit system to blacklist individuals for legal acts perceived as disruptive, such
                   as “malicious and frequent job-hopping,” resulting in well-publicized scandals and significant
                   public attention, and occasionally requiring central government intervention. 25 Such fluidity and
                   confusion has given rise to domestic criticism, with members of the legal community expressing
                   concerns that the system would benefit from greater central policy standardization.176 It appears
                   Beijing is scaling back the discretionary power relegated to localities regarding these aspects of
                   the CSCS, and there are now indications that the central government intends to impose a greater
                   degree of top-down coordination moving forward.177

                           Additionally, in November 2019, the NDRC hosted a social credit legislation symposium
                   where key policymakers called for research to support the drafting of a national social credit
                   law.178 The timeline for the release of this law is unclear. The Standing Committee of the National
                   People’s Congress 2018-2023 legislative agenda includes social credit as one of 108 areas requiring
                   legislative attention, but it is not listed among the top national legislative priorities.179 Though little
                   is known about this legislation, it is expected that the law will more clearly define the obligations
                   of citizens, companies, and governments under the CSCS, and may lay clearer groundwork for the

                   25 In April 2019, the deputy director of the Department of Human Resources and Social Security in Zhejiang
                   Province announced plans to use the SCS to penalize “malicious, frequent job-hoppers.” The announcement lead to
triviumchina.com




                   public outcry, as Chinese labor law grants workers the right of contract cancellation. No blacklist was established
                   and the issue was dropped, but the incident underscored the widespread mis-readings and attempted misapplications
                   of SCS law at the local level and highlights one of Beijing’s motivations for increasing top-down control of the
                   system. 爆笑基地: 专家建议频繁跳槽纳入征信黑名单，网友：怒了！ http://dy.163.com/v2/article/detail/EC-
                   94JP7I05496II9.html


                                                                           48
                   Section 8 - Implementation Status



                   establishment of blacklists.




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                           At the local level, though the majority of China’s provincial-level authorities have taken at
                   least minor steps toward implementing regional SCS policies in their jurisdictions, timelines for
                   rollout are widely divergent, and the scope of such policies varies. As of June 2020, 14 provinces
                   have finalized or drafted regulations governing the management and collection of PCI; nine have
                   released or drafted broader social credit regulations codifying data collection, Unified Rewards and
                   Punishments, credit repair, and credit information security for the province; six have announced
                   that drafts are in the planning stage; and seven provinces have made no announcement (see full
                   table in Appendix IV).

                           Areas that embraced SCS participation early on are unsurprisingly further along than those
                   that began later. Shanghai, a frontrunner in local SCS implementation due to participation in early
                   urban SCS pilot programs,26 was collecting enterprise credit information in the Shanghai Free
                   Trade Zone as early as 2014,180 and released its local regulations in 2017.181 In contrast, Jiangsu
                   province only released a working draft of its provincial regulations at the end of April 2020.182
                   Implementation status in other provinces varies widely, with some having made no announcement
                   regarding the status of provincial regulations, others having announced the impending release of
                   drafts, and still others having already issued a series of related ordinances. It is expected that all
                   provinces will have released provincial social credit regulations by 2023.

                   8.3 Well-defined penalty and reward ecosystem
                          A mature social credit system would require a stable and predictable blacklist and redlist
                   ecosystem, with streamlined, well-established processes for the application of CSCS penalties and
                   awards, with clearly defined roles for various market actors in the application of Unified Rewards
                   and Punishments.

                           The number of national blacklists has remained largely stable over the last two years, with
                   the rate of new blacklist and MOU releases slowing to a trickle since 2018. However, several new
                   blacklists are currently under development.27 It is likely that the blacklisting and redlisting system
                   will slowly broaden throughout various sectors over the next decade as new lists are trialed and
                   incorporated into the national framework.


                   26 Shanghai was among the first regions to undertake regional implementation pilots, with initiatives launched as
                   early as 2002-2003. “Press Conference of the Municipal Government: Shanghai’s Social Credit System is Taking
                   Shape” (市政府新闻发布会:上海社会信用制度已具雏形), Sina News, August 2003. Translation. http://news.sina.
                   com.cn/c/2003-07-30/1433472956s.shtml.

                   27 Examples: State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions of the State Council on Establishing a
                   Rehabilitation and Assistance System for Disabled Children (国务院关于建立残疾儿童康复救助制度的意见),
                   June 21, 2018. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:xs_s_WdlPfAJ:www.gov.cn/
triviumchina.com




                   zhengce/content/2018-07/10/content_5305296.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph; General Office of the Ministry
                   of Education of the People’s Republic of China, Main Points of the 2019 Inter-ministerial Joint Meeting on Private
                   Education (民办教育工作部际联席会议2019年工作要点), April 9, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.google-
                   usercontent.com/search?q=cache:TrQV5AX_DCoJ:www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-04/09/content_5380749.htm+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.


                                                                          49
                   Section 8 - Implementation Status



                           As described in Section 4.3, China is currently examining the boundaries of how far the




                                                                                                                                 China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   CSCS can percolate into the private sector, and under what circumstances industry actors may
                   participate in the issuance of penalties and rewards. Thus, the CSCS’s integration into wider
                   industry is in an exploratory stage and remains relatively immature.

                           If we consider that a “fully implemented” CSCS would be characterized these three elements
                   reaching relative maturity and stability, it is safe to say that the CSCS is still in a foundational stage.
                   However, there is no date at which the system will be suddenly “switched on.” Rather, the CSCS
                   is already operational, and will be incrementally expanded as various public and private sector
                   actors increasingly install infrastructure, ramp up policy participation, and solidify cooperative
                   agreements over the next decade.
triviumchina.com




                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                          China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 9
                   Compliance and Competition

                           Unified Rewards and Punishments has emerged as one of the most alarming aspects of
                   the CSCS for foreign firms operating in China, particularly the possibility that a single incident
                   of blacklisting could result in an avalanche of cascading consequences that hamper — or even
                   halt — business activity. This risk is real for all companies in China, not only foreign firms, but
                   the risk becomes greater if blacklists are unfairly or unevenly applied to non-Chinese companies.
                   Given China’s recent history of mis- or over-application of various regulations and laws to foreign
                   firms,183 the question of whether or not the CSCS will be unfairly leveraged to place pressure on U.S.
                   companies deserves thorough exploration. This section will examine the pitfalls and compliance
                   burdens that the CSCS presents to all companies with operations in China, as well whether or not
                   the CSCS has been — or might be — applied unequally to foreign firms.

                   9.1 Equality of application
                           As this report has outlined, the CSCS was conceived to address domestic market and
                   regulatory weaknesses arising from an inherent lack of trust among market actors, which has led
                   to rampant fraud and malfeasance and held back economic efficiency in China in recent decades.
                   Given that foreign-invested companies account for less than 3 percent of all companies in China,184
                   the CSCS primarily targets Chinese companies and seeks to address long-term issues surrounding
                   their poor regulatory compliance among domestic firms.

                           As of July 2020, we find that there is nothing within current CSCS-related policy that
                   explicitly disfavors foreign or U.S. companies or favors Chinese companies. Further we find
                   that the realities of its current implementation do not appear to directly disfavor foreign firms or
                   advantage Chinese firms.

                            A review of the CSCS files of 51 U.S. multinationals operating in China found that 44 had
                   been redlisted for tax compliance and were entitled to Unified Rewards.28 This included Google185
                   and FedEx,186 both of which have been involved in high-profile political disputes with China in
                   recent years.187 Neither are Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs) immune from blacklisting. A
                   filtered public records search29 showed that 1,391 national and local SOEs had been placed on the
                   Supreme People’s Court blacklist of legal defaulters for failure to honor court-ordered judgements,
                   making them subject to Unified Punishments. Blacklisted SOEs with the highest registered capital
                   included Tianjin Binhai New Area State-Owned Commercial Investment Group,188 Sichuan Coal
                   Industry Group,189 Shenyang Hunnan Water Group,190 and Yinchuan Cultural Tourism Investment
                   Group.191

                   28 Social credit records review conducted by Trivium China on 51 U.S. multinational companies via the Credit
                   China public CSCS records search tool, which indicates whether or not a company is eligible for Unified Rewards
                   or Unified Punishments, and enumerates the redlists, blacklists, and penalties companies have received. http://web-
triviumchina.com




                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.creditchina.gov.cn.

                   29 Public records found using advanced search options on corporate due diligence portal Qichacha, an official
                   CSCS social credit data partner. Company records may be simultaneously filtered by enterprise type, including State-
                   Owned Enterprises (国企), and court default records (失信信息).


                                                                            51
                   Section 9 - Compliance and Competition



                           Furthermore, policymakers have taken steps to ensure the CSCS is applied equally to foreign




                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   and domestic companies. In November 2019, the Ministry of Commerce announced its intention
                   to create a “foreign investor integrity file system” and a special blacklist for foreign investors.192
                   However, this idea was subsequently abandoned, and final regulations contain no separate foreign
                   investor blacklist — all companies are currently subject to the same set of blacklists, regardless of
                   whether investors are foreign or domestic.193

                            In the foreign business community in China, while the level of concern around CSCS
                   compliance is certainly elevated, we have heard no complaint that the CSCS systematically puts
                   foreign companies at a disadvantage, and we have not yet encountered any specific case in which
                   foreign companies have received disproportionate scrutiny under the CSCS. The general view
                   among the U.S. businesses we interviewed is that the CSCS will increase the compliance burden
                   on all companies operating in China, including foreign companies. Optimistically, some U.S.
                   executives expect compliance burdens to initially be higher for Chinese companies, potentially
                   benefitting foreign companies in the short term as regulators focus attention on the least-compliant
                   firms first. These views have been supported by conversations with executives at approximately 60
                   foreign businesses operating in China over the past year, and were corroborated by the AmCham
                   China 2020 Business Climate Survey Report, in which 42 percent of member companies viewed
                   the emergence of the CSCS as a positive development, 31 percent responded that there was not yet
                   enough available information to accurately assess risks, 19 percent viewed the CSCS as inherently
                   neither negative nor positive, and just eight percent viewed it as a negative development due to
                   either potential for abuse or for other reasons.194

                           As it appears the CSCS is currently being applied with relative equality to foreign and
                   Chinese firms, the question becomes whether or not this will remain the case. The CSCS is being
                   developed and implemented against a backdrop of concerted ideological tightening and rising
                   information control within China, as well as a deteriorating U.S.-China relationship, and it must
                   therefore be viewed within this context. Additionally, a pattern of regulatory abuse and an unlevel
                   playing field for U.S. and other foreign companies operating in China is also well documented.195
                   Thus, though the stated intention of the CSCS is to increase compliance and thereby improve the
                   consistency of regulatory enforcement for all commercial entities operating in China regardless of
                   ownership, the poor performance of Chinese regulators in this capacity means that U.S. firms must
                   remain alert on this front.

                   9.2 Increased vulnerability to corruption and bias: the human factor
                           As we have seen throughout this report, CSCS files are the unifying component of the
                   CSCS, and the records they contain will feed into a wide variety of applications. They will feed
                   into consumer advocacy and corporate due-diligence apps, they will appear on credit reports, they
                   will be imported into big data platforms that determine the degree of regulatory scrutiny companies
                   receive, and they will be a key metric in PCI-based grading systems. Given the central importance
                   and intended ubiquity of CSCS files, each record those files contain — specifically penalty records
triviumchina.com




                   and blacklist or redlist records — will carry greater weight. Thus, the fairness and accuracy with
                   which those records are generated and input is of paramount importance.

                            As we have also seen in Sections 4 and 7 of this report, the penalty and blacklist records


                                                                    52
                   Section 9 - Compliance and Competition



                   included in CSCS files are not generated on an automated basis — they result from inspections




                                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   and judgements carried out by human beings, and inspectors still possess considerable discretion
                   in terms of what is and is not pursued.30 This vagueness around the specific thresholds that may
                   induce regulatory action are an intrinsic feature to much of Chinese regulatory policy, and owes
                   in large part to China’s under-developed legal system and preference for retaining regulatory
                   discretion.196 The fact remains, if inspections are unfairly conducted, or regulators are determined
                   to find fault, the biased resulting data may damage a company’s corporate credit standing. Thus, if
                   the CSCS was to be leveraged against U.S. companies in the future, this is the most likely channel
                   through which it could happen.

                           In the event of increased bilateral trade tensions between the U.S. and China, or simply due
                   to generalized corruption or bias among local government officials, it is conceivable that regulators
                   may be less forgiving during inspections of U.S. firms and issue more frequent or harsher penalties
                   to them. This could be done irrespective of the CSCS, but due to the broader impact that penalty
                   records will have under the CSCS, unfair penalty issuance and blacklisting therefore becomes a
                   bigger threat.

                           That said, as part of broader efforts to crack down on domestic corruption, the Chinese
                   government is attempting to limit the human factor through the implementation of a “Double
                   Random, One Transparency” inspection system (双随机、一公开) in all regulatory agencies
                   nationwide.197 Under this system, the company to be inspected and the inspector are randomly
                   paired, and the results of the inspection are disclosed to the public. Theoretically, this could limit
                   regulatory bias, but its efficacy is highly reliant on the deployment of neutral platforms and tools
                   that facilitate random selection of inspection targets, and to date, our discussions with Chinese
                   regulators themselves indicate that such systems have not been widely implemented.31 Thus, in
                   practice, regulatory bodies have more power to choose their inspection targets than policy indicates.

                   9.3 Increased risks to — and from — key personnel
                           Due to the connection between the CSCS files of the organization and the CSCS files of its
                   senior staff, key personnel may be held personally liable for the actions of the company, whether or
                   not they were involved in the malfeasance. Ostensibly, the intention is to prevent parties engaged in
                   unethical business practices from simply closing up shop, starting another venture, and re-offending.
                   However, this “attempt of pierce the corporate veil”198 potentially opens up foreign management
                   and investors — some of whom may be based outside of China and have no knowledge of or
                   involvement in illegal activity — to significant personal risk. As noted by one social credit scholar,
                   “[t]his might delight those who think corporate leadership often escapes responsibility too easily,
                   but won’t necessarily help enforce judgments if those affected lack authority to [take rectifying
                   action] on behalf of the corporation.”199


                   30 Example: the Measures of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China on Enter-
triviumchina.com




                   prise Credit Management, which outlines the violations that will result in inclusion on the GAC blacklist, includes as
                   a violation “other circumstances as prescribed by the GAC.” The majority of blacklists include similar open-ended
                   statements.

                   31   Based on interviews conducted by Trivium China with Chinese government source.


                                                                            53
                   Section 9 - Compliance and Competition



                           Additionally, due to the extension of the broader social credit system to individuals,




                                                                                                                                      China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   companies themselves are increasingly vulnerable to the personal blacklist status of key personnel.
                   Though there are no known regulations explicitly stating that companies will be sanctioned if key
                   personnel are blacklisted for personal reasons, interviews with multinationals operating in China
                   revealed that one U.S. enterprise was restricted from participating in a large trade expo due to the
                   blacklisting of senior staff for legal violations unrelated to the company.32 Not only does this leave
                   companies vulnerable to unlawful behavior by their employees, it is also possible that pressure
                   could be indirectly applied to a U.S. company via the unfair blacklisting of its personnel.

                   9.4 More risk for companies with larger presence?
                           The CSCS’s top-down, holistic approach to both penalties and data collection has the
                   potential to disfavor companies with a more significant presence in China, particularly those with a
                   large number of branches or stores. More registered entities mean a larger number of social credit
                   files within a single parent company’s overall CSCS profile, and therefore an increased number of
                   vectors through which problems can arise.

                           However, how much a disadvantage this will present is still unclear. The precise relationship
                   between the social credit files of registered entities and their parent company is undergoing review,
                   and exactly how the blacklisting of entities under a parent company’s umbrella might impact other
                   subsidiaries or the parent company itself appears to vary depending on the regulator and blacklist.
                   In July 2019, for example, SAMR released a draft CSCS policy targeting the food and beverage
                   sector,33 stating that chains would be blacklisted if five or more outlets received administrative
                   penalties from local branches of the administration within a single year.200 Under this draft policy, if
                   five branches of a national fast food restaurant chain each received a single penalty for food safety
                   violations in a given year, the parent company would be placed on a blacklist, potentially affecting
                   operations nationwide. Due to pushback from the foreign business community, the finalization of
                   this policy has been put on hold, and the final shape these rules will take remains undecided. It is
                   also unclear whether other blacklist-controlling agencies will create their own rules in this regard,
                   or if — given the general trend towards top-down CSCS standardization — the central government
                   will step in and clarify.

                   9.5 Cross-contamination
                           There is one known channel through which the social credit of a company’s business partners
                   or suppliers may impact the company itself. While the CSCS files of a company and its suppliers
                   are not officially linked the CSCS, when a company bids for a government procurement project
                   in partnership with another company, or is required to list its suppliers on bidding documents,
                   or otherwise jointly submits other applications to government bodies in cooperation with third
                   parties, the social credit profiles of all listed companies and vendors may be reviewed, impacting

                   32   Based on conversations held between Trivium China analysts and executives at one U.S. technology firm.
triviumchina.com




                   33 Food safety has been a consistent source of both public and regulatory concern over the last two decades, and
                   high-profile food safety issues such as the 2008 melamine-contaminated baby formula scandal, the 2010 and 2014
                   “gutter oil” scandals, and the 2019 African Swine Fever outbreak have severely damaged consumer trust in regula-
                   tors and domestic food products.


                                                                          54
                   Section 9 - Compliance and Competition



                   the success or failure of such bids and applications.201 Other than this, there is currently no known




                                                                                                                                China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   channel through which the social credit standing of a company would be impacted by the social
                   credit of its business partners, suppliers, contractors, or customers.

                   9.6 Data collection and disclosure
                           CSCS policy expressly states that corporate trade secrets will be protected from publication
                   in CSCS files. Indeed, no single item of PCI contained in public-facing CSCS databases is highly
                   sensitive, and we have not encountered any examples of foreign companies lodging protest against
                   the nature of information made available via CSCS files. On the contrary, several U.S. firms
                   interviewed were hopeful that the public availability of CSCS files could enhance the effectiveness
                   of due diligence and background checks on potential Chinese business partners and suppliers.
                   However, this transparency is a two-way street, and while no individual piece of PCI is overly
                   revealing, the ready availability of CSCS files do allow competitors — as well as the media — to
                   conveniently formulate a comprehensive overview of any company’s compliance status.

                            Additionally, though data privacy has been identified as a priority by CSCS policymakers,202
                   China tends to conceptualize “data privacy” as the protection of networks from unauthorized private
                   agents — such as hackers, competitors, app developers, and third party agents — rather than the
                   protection of the data subject’s rights in relation to the state.203 Thus it should come as no surprise
                   that, though there are mechanisms through which companies may object to the erroneous inclusion
                   of certain records in their CSCS files, there are currently no provisions under which companies or
                   individuals can object to the sharing of CSCS data between agencies.204

                           The CSCS itself does not change data reporting requirements for companies based in
                   China, but violations related to non-compliance with data disclosure are now recorded under the
                   CSCS. Examples include failure to follow new regulations released in December 2019 by the
                   State Administration for Market Regulation and the Ministry of Commerce requiring all foreign-
                   invested enterprises (FIEs) to submit annual investment reports on their foreign investors and
                   actual controllers,205 which for investors includes the amount and percentage of equity stake, as
                   well as whether a Fortune 500 company is involved in investment; for actual controllers, this
                   includes whether the controller is an individual, company or government organization, as well as
                   direct powers the controller holds through 50 percent or greater financial investment, or indirect
                   powers the controller holds through authority to appoint board members, authority to significantly
                   influence board decisions, or through authority over key contracts, trusts or technologies.34 Foreign
                   companies and investors will face penalties if they neglect their reporting obligations or falsify
                   information. Penalties will be made public through the Ministry of Commerce’s FIE Investment
                   Information Reporting System, and “credit administration will be undertaken as per social credit
                   regulations.”206

                   9.7 Implicit pressure to submit to unfair penalties
triviumchina.com




                   34 See foreign investor reporting form attached to: Ministry of Commerce, “Announcement on Matters Related
                   to Foreign Investment Information Reporting” (关于外商投资信息报告有关事项的公告), December 31, 2019.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:I_cQnEWfNJMJ:www.mofcom.gov.cn/arti-
                   cle/b/c/201912/20191202927046.shtml+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.


                                                                        55
                   Section 9 - Compliance and Competition



                           As fulfillment of obligations and payment of fines must be completed before companies




                                                                                                                                     China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   can apply for delisting of negative records, some companies may find it easier to forgo prolonged
                   challenges to the government’s legal and administrative decisions and pay penalties, even if they
                   are unfair, to minimize the reputational damage and operational restrictions caused by blacklist
                   inclusion. This could be true even though companies are granted time to object to blacklist inclusion.
                   In practice, objecting to or appealing administrative decisions can come with political risk and is
                   already a cumbersome and fraught process for foreign companies, who must weigh the benefits of
                   attempting to dispute against the costs of a potential backlash.

                   9.8 Confusion due to decentralized rollout
                           Spot polls conducted in chamber and association meetings have indicated that the piecemeal
                   nature of CSCS rollout has left foreign firms unsure of when and how to best prepare for compliance,
                   and where to focus preparatory efforts.35 Additionally, uneven policy rollout at the local level has
                   resulted in inefficient bureaucratic procedures, which is increasingly problematic given the higher
                   stakes of penalty incurrence under the CSCS. Under the CSCS, timely penalty rectification is of
                   the essence, and CSCS issues arising from slow reporting both on the regulatory end and internally
                   was a recurring theme among interviewed businesses, particularly in cases where the compliance
                   team is located in a province other than the penalized branch office or subsidiary. Two foreign
                   multinationals reported in interviews that the company had not been made aware of penalties
                   until after the deadline for appeal had expired. Companies must allocate resources to actively
                   monitoring penalty issuance and restructuring reporting channels so that penalties received by any
                   branch office or legal entity are swiftly addressed.

                   9.9 Sector-specific dangers
                           The CSCS was not designed to target certain industries, but the Chinese government does
                   have sectors it wants the system to prioritize.207 Consequently, any companies in those sectors
                   will be more closely scrutinized, including U.S. firms. These sectors include food and beverage,
                   pharmaceuticals, child and senior care, tourism, finance, healthcare services, construction, and
                   high-polluting industries. The rationale is to focus on sectors that are perceived to have significant
                   negative externalities and can do the most damage to public health and wellbeing if product or
                   service quality fails to meet regulatory standards. Severely non-compliant companies in these
                   sectors may see the harshest penalties applied, including permanent bans on market access.208
triviumchina.com




                   35 Based on confidential interviews and polls conducted in Beijing by Trivium China with executives at U.S. and
                   foreign multinationals.


                                                                          56
                                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 10
                   Geopolitics and Future Risk

                           To date, the primary concern surrounding the CSCS on the international stage has been the
                   system’s potential to be weaponized against foreign companies, particularly in light of the continuing
                   deterioration of the U.S.-China relationship. However, at this time, neither the official rhetoric
                   surrounding the CSCS, the design of the system, nor the feedback from foreign multinationals
                   operating in China provide sufficient evidence to indicate that the CSCS is currently being applied
                   unfairly against foreign firms. Though not outside the realm of future possibility, given the current
                   lack of evidence to support this as a use case for the CSCS, we assess that the more immediate
                   geopolitical risks are of a different nature. These center around its potential to contribute to the
                   erosion of the U.S.’ leading position internationally in relation to data management, access, and
                   standards, as well as the leading position of U.S. firms in financial enterprise and sovereign credit
                   ratings. We detail these and other risks in the sections below.

                   10.1 Coercing behavior from foreign companies
                            The CSCS increases China’s ability to enforce policies which conflict with U.S. social and
                   corporate values, such as online censorship regulations and the One China Principle. Impending
                   regulations, such as the draft of the Cyberspace Administration of China’s Administrative
                   Measures for the Management of Seriously Dishonest Internet Information Services36 stipulates
                   that internet companies will be blacklisted if their operational license has been canceled due to
                   illegal activities or failure to abide by cyberspace regulations, or if they are found to be spreading
                   information that “severely disrupts the order of cyberspace communications, damages the public
                   interest and the legitimate rights of the people, and causes negative social impacts.”209

                           One often-cited incident of such a clash has already caused concern. In 2018, the Civil
                   Aviation Administration of China issued a letter threatening to blacklist 44 international airlines
                   if they continued to list Taiwan separately from China on their international websites.210 This
                   example underscores that blacklisting could be threatened against companies that violate Chinese
                   regulations, even when such violations occur outside of China’s jurisdiction. Such demands place
                   companies in a difficult position, intensifying the pressure to adhere to Chinese regulatory requirements
                   that may conflict with their own values, and also with the values of their customers overseas — or
                   potentially even with U.S. policies or broader U.S. interests.

                           However, it must be pointed out that the core disagreement in such instances is with the
                   underlying laws and regulations that the CSCS is designed to enforce, not with the CSCS itself.211
                   These conflicts existed long before the arrival of the CSCS, and will continue to exist regardless
                   of whether and how it is applied. The question is whether or not the CSCS makes the enforcement
                   of objectionable laws more efficient by streamlining and instrumentalizing China’s opposition to
                   foreign entities it perceives as not sufficiently abiding by its regulations. Additionally, its existence
                   and the severity of potential ramifications of blacklist inclusion domestically may subtly encourage
triviumchina.com




                   international companies with operations in China to hew to Beijing’s preferred behavior and

                   36 As of July 2020, the Administrative Measures for the Management of Seriously Dishonest Internet Information
                   Services has not been officially promulgated.


                                                                         57
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                   narratives, increasingly self-censoring in order to avoid seeing their China-registered entities come




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   under CSCS-backed pressure.

                   10.2 Enhancing China’s influence over domestic companies abroad
                           The CSCS gives China a direct channel through which to tighten its grip on the behavior
                   and actions of Chinese entities operating overseas.

                           This feature of the CSCS is perhaps most apparent through a blacklist controlled by the
                   Ministry of Foreign Affairs which targets Chinese companies involved in international economic
                   infrastructure, finance, manufacturing, or other Belt and Road projects. The blacklist is aimed at
                   companies which “violate relevant domestic laws and regulations or those of cooperating countries,
                   or violate international conventions or the United Nations Resolutions, disrupting the stability of
                   [China’s] foreign economic cooperation, causing serious adverse effects on the implementation of
                   the Belt and Road, and endangering the reputation and interests of [China].” 212 This blacklist can
                   be contextualized against a backdrop of international backlash against corrupt and poorly managed
                   Belt and Road projects, under which “inadequate enforcement and poor business practices are
                   turning the BRI into a global trail of trouble.” 213

                           CSCS-related language has also appeared in the newly revised draft of China’s controversial
                   Export Control Law, which now includes a provision indicating that violations of export control
                   regulations will be included in the violator’s CSCS file.214 The inclusion of this provision is not
                   peculiar in itself. Hundreds of Chinese market regulations are currently being updated with similar
                   provisions, which are little more than administrative formalities that roll various rules under the
                   CSCS enforcement umbrella. However, the inclusion of this provision may allow Beijing to hold
                   its domestic companies on a tighter leash in overseas markets, particularly during international
                   sales and acquisitions.

                   10.3 Tightening Party control over local governments
                          The central government has long struggled to effectively keep local government priorities
                   aligned with Party goals. One prime example is the Party’s efforts over the years to reduce
                   overcapacity — notably in steel and cement production. Such efforts met with fierce resistance
                   from local leadership:

                            While the national government sought to rationalize industries and to create
                            an efficient national economy, local governments gave priority to employment,
                            GDP growth and maximizing their revenues, a large portion of which come from
                            business taxes. This has led many local governments to encourage investment in
                            new capacity, in contravention of national policies. Where Beijing has tried to force
                            the closure of firms, be it for violating environmental regulations, having outdated
                            production equipment, or other reasons, local authorities have often helped the
                            firms to continue producing in defiance of instructions from the capital. Central
triviumchina.com




                            government bureaucrats are not unaware of the problem, but they often lack the
                            resources to force compliance. 215




                                                                     58
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                           The CSCS may provide the Party with just such a resource, through two potential channels.




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   First, due to the national, cross-sector nature of Unified Rewards and Punishments, central leaders
                   may not depend as heavily on local regulators to implement policy and enforce regulations, but can
                   instead apply pressure through blacklisting by any agency and allow the CSCS penalty framework
                   to kick in, effectively restricting market access to companies it wishes to disadvantage. Secondly,
                   analysis of CSCS data via the National Urban Credit Situation Monitoring System (全国城市信用
                   状况监测系统)216 can be employed to give central leadership a top-down view of which regions
                   are least compliant with central key performance indicators. This should help Beijing to root out
                   insubordinate or ineffective local authorities unwilling or unable to bring their jurisdictions into
                   line with central mandates.

                   10.4 The power of data centralization
                           China’s push towards the rapid, large-scale consolidation of government data, of which the
                   CSCS is a part, has the potential to enhance the bureaucratic efficiency, predictive capacity, and
                   regulatory responsiveness of the Chinese state,217 which could in turn enhance Party legitimacy and
                   control in China and in other countries.

                           Historian Yuval Harari argues “free market capitalism and state-controlled communism
                   aren’t competing ideologies, ethical creeds, or political institutions. At bottom, they are competing
                   data-processing systems. Capitalism uses distributed processing, whereas communism relies on
                   centralized processing.”218 While this characterization may be reductive, it does neatly encapsulate
                   the divergent approaches to algorithmic regulation taken by China and the United States.

                          Employing AI and big data to inform regulatory decision making is not unique to China or
                   the CSCS. In the report Government by Algorithm: Artificial Intelligence in Federal Administrative
                   Agencies released in February 2020 by a team at Stanford University, researchers found that 45
                   percent of U.S. federal agencies have experimented with AI in capacities quite similar to CSCS
                   data-based initiatives such as Internet Plus:219

                            AI tools are already improving agency operations across the full range of
                            governance tasks, including enforcing regulatory mandates centered on market
                            efficiency, workplace safety, health care, and environmental protection; adjudicating
                            government benefits and privileges, from disability benefits to intellectual property
                            rights; monitoring and analyzing risks to public health and safety; extracting
                            useable information from the government’s massive data streams, from consumer
                            complaints to weather patterns; and Communicating with the public about its rights
                            and obligations as welfare beneficiaries, taxpayers, asylum seekers, and business
                            owners.

                           Where U.S. algorithmic regulation projects differ from their Chinese counterparts is in
                   the scope of data available to them. Without a nationally centralized regulatory dataset, U.S.
triviumchina.com




                   federal agencies are generally limited to leveraging their own internally collected data or that in
                   the public domain. By contrast, the centralization of PCI and MCI under the CSCS — and the
                   broader government extranet — places a vast body of cross-sector data resources in the hands of



                                                                     59
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                   China’s state agencies. Moreover, the establishment and expansion of infrastructure and networks




                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   through which national social credit data can be shared and centralized, such as the NCISP, lays the
                   technical groundwork for the rapid expansion of other national data aggregation projects.

                           Though we do not suggest that the U.S. should centralize government records in the
                   same manner that China has done, it has been well-established that government performance and
                   administrative competence are critical to the legitimacy of any state,220 and in the age of big data,
                   competence and performance are highly dependent on both the amount of data available, and the
                   efficiency, efficacy, and innovation with which the state manages and deploys its data resources.
                   Thus, we do argue that failure to develop a sophisticated and efficient data-driven governance
                   model based on democratic values and underpinned by a strong data privacy regime may result in
                   a vacuum which, by default, validates “the idea that authoritarian political systems are not only
                   legitimate but can outperform Western democracies.”221

                           Such outperformance may come in the form of greater accuracy of insights and predictions
                   generated through the use of these tools, higher efficiency of policymaking based on such insights,
                   and increased capacity to effectively influence corporate behavior on a national scale. Additionally,
                   assuming increased bureaucratic efficiency leads to increased predictability in decision-making,
                   as well as consistent and predictable application of the law, there could be economic benefits for
                   Beijing as well: the CSCS may increase private sector trust in the stability of China’s markets,
                   which would likely result in an influx of foreign portfolio and direct investment.

                           However, these potential long-term benefits are predicated on the assumption that Beijing’s
                   ultimate vision for data connectivity is realized. Significant roadblocks exist, not least of which are
                   the technical challenges that accompany the deployment of a decentralized infrastructure project of
                   such ambitious scale and scope. The decentralized nature of PCI collection poses another problem
                   for data quality and integrity, as the sources of such data are so numerous and varied. Inter-agency
                   resistance to data sharing and conflicting interests and motivations among local governments may
                   also hinder the project’s momentum.222

                   10.5 Exporting the CSCS: a challenge to Western financial credit models?
                           Although there is currently no specific state directive calling for the export of the CSCS, the
                   geopolitical benefits of taking the broader social credit system into the international space have been
                   suggested by various Chinese thought leaders, in pieces such as Credit of Great Powers: Global
                   Vision of China’s Social Credit System,223 a 2017 publication by NDRC International Cooperation
                   Center member Wu Weihai. Publications like this indicate that at least some theoretical discussion
                   regarding the internationalization of social credit has taken place among technocrats and experts.
                   In particular, Wu underscores that not only should China use the CSCS to improve corporate
                   trustworthiness and integrity domestically to “win the high praise … and the trust of industrial
                   partners and to achieve strategic cooperation and commodity exchange,” but also that “under the
                   all-round opening up of international competition, [control over] credit standards ... is also an
triviumchina.com




                   important area of competition
                                     ​​             between countries, and is a manifestation of national soft power.”224

                            In advocating the internationalization of social credit, Wu specifically refers to the CSCS



                                                                     60
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                   in the context of financial risk assessment, rather than as a tool for corporate regulation. However,




                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   though Wu champions the theoretical export of the system, his work is highly idealistic, and lacks a
                   concrete vision for how the CSCS could feasibly be translated to financial markets outside China’s
                   borders. Neither does he clearly indicate whether this vision extends to individual credit ratings,
                   corporate credit ratings, or sovereign credit ratings.

                          More broadly, Chinese policy thinkers are well aware of the economic benefits inherent
                   in becoming a global credit rating authority. A 2018 report from the China Economic and Social
                   Council states:

                            [C]redit rating is an important force in maintaining national financial sovereignty
                            and economic security and represents a country’s position in the international
                            financial service system…. Mastering the right to issue a credit rating means
                            mastering global information dominance and capital allocation rights. The level of
                            a rating directly affects the cost and interest rate of the country or enterprise under
                            review for overseas financing. 225

                           It is equally clear that there are strong voices within the Chinese government who feel
                   that the internationally-accepted U.S.-dominated enterprise and sovereign credit rating models,
                   particularly those used by the “Big Three” (S&P Global Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, and
                   Fitch Ratings), are biased toward Western countries226 and are ill suited to the Chinese context.
                   Critics of the Big Three include former finance minister Lou Jiwei and former PBOC governor
                   Zhou Xiaochuan, who “stressed the need for Chinese financial institutions to reduce reliance on
                   credit ratings from U.S.-based” CRAs.227 As Samantha Hoffman, analyst at the Australian Strategic
                   Policy Institute, notes:

                            Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings [are] seen as
                            potential threats to China. One article claimed that the agencies can ‘destroy a
                            nation by downgrading their credit score, utilising the shock power of “economic
                            nukes”’. Another article tied the problem to the One Belt, One Road scheme ...,
                            because participant countries accept the current international ratings system.
                            For the CCP, the solution is to increase the ‘discourse power [that China’s]
                            credit agencies possess on the international credit evaluation stage.’ China’s SCS
                            provides an alternative to the existing international credit ratings system. It does
                            some similar things to the existing system but is designed to give the Chinese state
                            a more powerful voice in global governance. 228

                           The dominant position of the U.S. dollar and U.S. control over global financial systems
                   have long preoccupied Beijing. China’s concerns over financial sovereignty have led to at least
                   one attempt to establish a financial credit ratings body to challenge the U.S. incumbents. In 2012, a
                   consortium led by state-backed credit rating agencies from China and Russia, as well as one private
triviumchina.com




                   U.S. firm, collaborated to form the Hong Kong-based Universal Credit Ratings Group,229 formed
                   under the premise that the Big Three have been systematically biased against emerging economies
                   while favoring U.S. and EU-based clients.230



                                                                      61
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                          This approach falls in line with one major thrust of Beijing’s overall geopolitical strategy,




                                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   which has involved identifying areas where Chinese policymakers believe that U.S.-led international
                   organizations or standards systems either marginalize developing economies or struggle to meet
                   the needs of emerging economic models. Beijing then moves to establish parallel China-led
                   organizations and standards systems that address these gaps while simultaneously favoring China.231
                   Seen from this angle, the establishment of a Chinese-led international credit rating agency, based
                   on social credit theory, could present a unique challenge to incumbent Western models.

                           The Universal Credit Ratings Group project appears to now be defunct, with no significant
                   movement since 2016. The group never released its international ratings, and the project failed
                   partly due to under-investment — leading to an inability to create a robust ratings matrix that was
                   granular and reliable enough to challenge the Big Three.37 Still, China’s internal efforts to develop
                   its domestic credit ratings industry, and improve the quality of its ratings by leveraging CSCS data,
                   is ongoing, and another push towards establishing a China-led international credit rating authority
                   would come as no surprise.

                           It is too early to assess whether the CSCS could reliably be expanded to create the foundation
                   for a potential alternative to Western financial credit ratings in any capacity — and if so, how
                   PCI or MCI would be collected internationally and what role such data would play in ratings.
                   However, the domestic discourse surrounding social credit draws clear links between the two, and
                   observers are left to imagine scenarios under which, for example, Chinese investors could demand
                   that potential projects — particularly along the Belt and Road — receive a credit rating issued by
                   Chinese CRAs as a precondition to investment. If such ratings are based on PCI and graded under
                   social credit models, the groundwork would be laid for global standardization of the CSCS data
                   framework. Such an alternative rating system may be attractive to developing economies with
                   complaints similar to China’s when it comes to perceived bias in the Western-led international
                   financial architecture. For the time being, however, the practicalities of these efforts still remain in
                   the realm of speculation.

                          One final concern on this front is the potential for Western credit rating agencies and
                   consumer finance firms to seek to unlock market opportunities in China by leveraging their expertise
                   and technology to help Chinese companies or regulators develop credit algorithms based on PCI.
                   Not only could such cooperation enable development of the CSCS globally, but it may also open
                   an additional avenue for the transfer of knowledge or intellectual property from American firms to
                   Chinese entities.

                   10.6 Exporting the CSCS: corporate regulation technology
                            Outside of the financial space, problems that the CSCS seeks to address – low levels of
                   market trust, siloed government data, poor regulatory enforceability – are not particular to China,
                   and it is not difficult to imagine that a solution to any one of these problems might be attractive to
                   both developed and developing economies alike. Although the specific records the CSCS currently
triviumchina.com




                   collects are largely unique to Chinese governance, the categories of PCI earmarked for collection

                   37 Trivium interviewed two anonymous sources with personal familiarity with the Universal Credit Ratings Group
                   project.


                                                                         62
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                   in China’s CSCS technical standards framework – administrative penalties, inspection records, and




                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   so on – are common to most nations, and it is not inconceivable that China may seek to promote
                   the use of domestically-developed regulatory models abroad.

                          We assess that foreign countries currently have little incentive to import PCI-specific storage
                   databases and database software from China, as they are both too specific to the Chinese context
                   to be packaged for export without significant alterations, and too technically straightforward to
                   necessitate outsourcing by foreign governments. There is no indication in government procurement
                   records or the CSCS technical framework that CSCS hardware is particularly innovative.

                           Of potentially greater interest are the algorithms currently under development for use
                   in regulatory risk prediction modeling based on PCI. The large number of Chinese companies
                   involved in the development and deployment of local CSCS-adjacent regulatory platforms means
                   that China is now rich with specialists who have technical experience developing and deploying
                   local- and national-level software packages along the same lines as Internet Plus Regulation,
                   which include features that assess, and draw insights from, corporate compliance data. Though
                   currently immature, as these systems become more sophisticated, the insights they provide may
                   prove of interest to countries with similar corporate compliance concerns. Such algorithms could
                   be deployed on any number of urban regulatory systems, smart city frameworks, and state agency
                   data platforms, not only those developed by China. Widespread adoption of these algorithms has
                   the potential to reduce U.S. competitiveness in the machine learning space and could underpin a
                   shift towards a Chinese-led model of urban regulatory frameworks.

                   10.7 Lack of remedial avenues
                           For now, there is no evidence that the CSCS is being used to disadvantage foreign firms,
                   but in the event that the system is leveraged against U.S. companies, or CSCS-related policies
                   evolve to disadvantage foreign firms, there is no obvious channel through which the U.S. could
                   address such issues with Beijing. Treaties such as the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade
                   administered by the WTO were not written with concepts like the CSCS in mind. The Agreement
                   primarily addresses potential barriers to traditional cross-border trade in goods. Its purpose is to
                   proscribe the ways that member-countries might use standards, definitions, accreditations, and
                   general product-registration requirements to make it more costly for foreign suppliers (vis-à-vis
                   domestic producers) to get their exports to market, and the SCS falls outside of this scope.

                           Additionally, the Agreement, like many others administered by the WTO, allows for
                   “reasonable” differentiation in national policies toward economic management, assuming that
                   those differentiated policies are applied equally to domestic and foreign firms, and assuming that
                   those policies serve a “legitimate purpose.” The trade policy experts that we interviewed concluded
                   that the CSCS would likely be deemed to serve a legitimate purpose. Furthermore, even if China
                   was using the CSCS to disadvantage U.S. firms, it would likely be difficult to prove, which would
                   undercut any drive to lodging a case against China in regard to the CSCS at the World Trade
triviumchina.com




                   Organization.

                            Beyond the Agreement, there does not appear to be any existing body of international trade



                                                                    63
                   Section 10 - Geopolitics and Future Risk



                   law that specifically addresses member state obligations regarding a concept akin to the CSCS.




                                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   However, next-generation regional treaties like the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for
                   Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA,
                   or NAFTA 2.0) include an array of up-to-date language on national treatment, cross-border
                   investment, cross-border trade in services, financial services, competition policy, and the like.
                   These new behind-the-border regulations are a step-level improvement over the WTO’s wording,
                   and touch on topics related to potential CSCS risk (not least, provisions related to digital trade, data
                   privacy, and data localization requirements). These new treaties also include updated procedures
                   for dispute settlement and authorize new remedies for compliance failures.

                           In recent years, many U.S. observers and policymakers have noted the failure of the existing
                   international economic regulatory architecture to adapt to and effectively manage China’s approach
                   to cross-border trade and investment.38 In addition, over the years China’s non-compliance became
                   more creative and more entrenched.232 Despite these problems, efforts to reform the WTO have
                   faltered in recent years, in large part because the US has not mounted a sustained effort in this
                   regard. In the absence of a next-generation WTO, there will be no international rules that address
                   complex new developments with the potential to undermine fair trade, such as the CSCS.
triviumchina.com




                   38 See for example U.S. Trade Representative, “2018 USTR Report on China’s WTO Compliance,” February
                   2019. https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/2018-USTR-Report-to-Congress-on-China%27s-WTO-Compliance.pdf ;
                   Mark Wu, “The ‘China, Inc.’ Challenge to Global Trade Governance,” Harvard International Law Review 57 No. 2 ,
                   Spring 2016. 261–324, 269. https://harvardilj.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/15/HLI210_crop.pdf.


                                                                         64
                                                                                                                  China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Section 11
                   Recommendations for Congress

                          1. Direct the International Trade Administration (ITA) in the Department
                             of Commerce to establish a dedicated channel for monitoring unfair
                             treatment of U.S. firms under the CSCS. As the system unfolds, it is crucial
                             that the U.S. has its ear to the ground for signs that the CSCS is evolving in a
                             potentially disadvantageous direction or is being used to unfairly disadvantage
                             U.S. companies. Congress should direct the Department of Commerce to create
                             an online tool similar to the existing “Report a Foreign Trade Barrier” webpage,
                             where U.S. companies may alert the ITA to instances of biased or unequal
                             treatment under the CSCS. Disclosures made through this channel should be
                             used to inform analysis of CSCS impacts on U.S. firms to be included in the
                             U.S. Trade Representative’s annual report on technical barriers to trade.

                          2. Commission a study to improve Washington’s understanding of the full
                             scope and nature of China’s government data centralization drive. The
                             emergence of the CSCS throws a spotlight on an issue much bigger than the
                             CSCS itself: the political and economic power that Beijing stands to gain
                             from centralizing government data. The geopolitical implications of Chinese
                             government agencies realizing swift, nationwide record sharing through China’s
                             broader data aggregation push — of which the CSCS is but a small part — are
                             potentially far-reaching. As a starting point for formulating a response, Congress
                             should commission a study from the U.S. China Economic and Security Review
                             Commission that explores the depth and breadth of China’s government data-
                             sharing platform, including which agencies are participating, how data is
                             administered, relevant laws governing the sharing of government data, and use
                             cases illuminating how data is used.

                          3. Build and pass a federal-level legal framework for data privacy that
                             enables the productive sharing of data in the context of democratic values.
                             If Beijing’s model of government data aggregation does indeed prove to boost
                             China’s predictive capacity and bureaucratic efficiency, the temptation to follow
                             in Beijing’s footsteps may be too strong for governments of developing nations
                             to ignore. International adoption of Chinese-led government data collection
                             models cannot be challenged without a stronger, more innovative, and at
                             least comparably efficient model for supporting algorithmic regulation. The
                             U.S. has an opportunity to set the global example for leveraging the power of
                             administrative records and other regulatory data within the context of a data
                             privacy regime based on democratic values, and the protection of personal
                             privacy and national security. The U.S. cannot accomplish this without first
triviumchina.com




                             establishing an overarching mandate governing what public and private sector
                             organizations can and cannot do with U.S. citizen data — one that includes a
                             framework under which personally identifying information in administrative



                                                                   65
                   Section 11 - Recommendations for Congress



                                and government records can remain confidential while enabling key data to




                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                be extracted to support algorithmic decision-making. At present, federal U.S.
                                data protection regulations have only been rolled out in piecemeal fashion
                                covering select sectors, with key data protection issues left up to the states. A
                                strong federal data protection regime will serve as a basis to establish public
                                confidence in government data security, and as a foundation upon which the
                                U.S. can harness the power of its big data resources.

                            4. Create a regulatory and technical sandbox where U.S. government agencies
                               may collaboratively experiment with innovative regulatory informatization
                               infrastructure projects. Government data silos are a tremendous barrier to
                               effective utilization of regulatory data. While many U.S. agencies have already
                               committed to greater data availability and transparency through the Open Data
                               movement, this data remains scattered, siloed, and poorly leveraged. Momentum
                               for effectively leveraging U.S. agency data has picked up through legislation
                               such as the Foundations for Evidence-based Policymaking Act (the Evidence
                               Act) and complementary action plans such as the Federal Data Strategy, which
                               seek to establish best practices for government data collection and sharing,
                               increase interoperability of agency data, and help agencies leverage their data
                               as a strategic resource. However, these actions stop short of providing an
                               innovative, usable technical pathway and technical standards through which
                               government agencies can explore new ways to connect, create data pools, and
                               extract the valuable insights from shared data while protecting privacy. To fill
                               this gap, Congress should form an inter-agency working group comprised of
                               Federal Data Strategy stakeholders, Evidence Act stakeholders, the National
                               Institute of Standards and Technology, and the General Services Administration
                               (GSA). The working group should collaborate to establish both a regulatory and
                               technical sandbox for federal data sharing innovation that leverages the GSA’s
                               experience incubating and designing usable government platforms, NIST’s
                               standard-setting prowess, and the Federal Data Strategy’s cross-agency vision
                               and legislative framework for data utilization.

                            5. Urge the U.S. Department of State to actively participate in defining global
                               governance frameworks of smart regulatory technologies. The establishment
                               of global principles that govern government data collection via emerging
                               technologies is a developing frontier, and it is critical that such principles are
                               underpinned by democratic values, strong data privacy protections, and U.S.
                               market principles. Congress should encourage the U.S. Department of State
                               to increase participation in international consortiums such as the International
                               Telecommunications Union (ITU), specifically in the ITU’s role as a member
                               of the G20 Global Smart Cities Alliance on Technology Governance, led by
triviumchina.com




                               the World Economic Forum, which was launched in October 2019 to define
                               global best practices for the ethical use and governance of smart regulatory
                               technologies and corporate data governance models.



                                                                     66
                   Section 11 - Recommendations for Congress



                            6. Direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to prepare a report




                                                                                                                   China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                               examining how China’s envisioned approach to corporate credit rating may
                               pose a challenge to or create an alternative to U.S.-led credit ratings models,
                               particularly as it may undermine market confidence in the ratings industry
                               over time. Based on its findings, the report should make recommendations as to
                               the extent which U.S. credit rating agencies and financial institutions should be
                               required to disclose business or research partnerships with Chinese entities on
                               project or business endeavors related to credit and credit rating.
triviumchina.com




                                                                    67
                   Appendices




                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Appendix I: Member organizations of the Joint Inter-ministerial Council on the
                   Construction of the Social Credit System
                    No.   Member

                   1      National Development and Reform Commission
                   2      Central Civilization Office
                   3      Central Political and Legal Commission
                   4      Central Network Information Office
                   5      Ministry of Ecology and Environment
                   6      Ministry of Transport
                   7      Ministry of Science and Technology
                   8      Central Propaganda Department
                   9      People’s Bank of China
                   10     Central Editorial Office
                   11     General Administration of Customs
                   12     State Taxation Administration
                   13     Civil Service Bureau
                   14     Ministry of Emergency Management
                   15     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
                   16     Ministry of State Security
                   17     Supreme People’s Court
                   18     Supreme Prosecutor’s Office
                   19     Ministry of Education
                   20     Ministry of Public Security
                   21     Civil Aviation Administration of China
                   22     Ministry of Culture and Tourism
                   23     Ministry of Civil Affairs
                   24     Ministry of Justice
                   25     Ministry of Finance
                   26     Ministry of Commerce
                   27     State Administration of Foreign Exchange
                   28     Bureau of Statistics
                   29     Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
                   30     Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
triviumchina.com




                   31     China Securities Regulatory Commission
                   32     China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission
                   33     China Council for the Promotion of International Trade



                                                                            68
                   Appendices




                                                                                China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   34      Xinhua News Agency
                   35      National Medical Products Administration
                   36      State Administration for Market Regulation
                   37      National Intellectual Property Administration
                   38      All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce
                   39      Communist Youth League
                   40      China Railway
                   41      National Health Commission
                   42      Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security
                   43      National Railway Administration
                   44      National Archives Administration
                   45      China Disabled Persons Federation
                   46      National Energy Administration
triviumchina.com




                                                                           69
                   Appendices




                   Appendix II: Key national-level social credit policies and documents




                                                                                                                                             China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                    Policy (Chinese)       Policy (English)                          What is it?                                   Year

                    国务院办公厅关于建立国务           Circular of the General Office of the     Establishes the Joint Inter-ministerial       2007
                    院社会信用体系建设部际联           State Council on the Establishment        Council on the Construction of the Social
                    席会议制度的通知               of the Joint Inter-ministerial Council    Credit System
                                           for the Construction of the Social
                                           Credit System

                    国务院办公厅关于社会信用           Opinions of the General Office            Announces State Council’s intention to        2007/08
                    体系建设的若干意见              of the State Council on the               proceed with the establishment of the
                                           Construction of a Social Credit           SCS
                                           System

                   社会信用体系建设规划纲要            Planning Outline for the                  The policy marking the official kickoff of    2014
                   （2014—2020年）            Construction of a Social Credit           the SCS project
                                           System (2014-2020)

                    关于推进诚信建设制度化的           Opinions on Promoting the                 Formalizes the blacklisting, redlisting,      2014
                    意见                     Institutionalization of Integrity         reward, and punishments mechanisms as
                                           Construction                              part of the SCS

                    发改委《社会信用体系建设           Division of Labor for the                 NDRC’s directive outlining which              2014
                    规划纲要（2014—2020年)》任     Construction of a Social Credit           government bodies will be responsible
                    务分工                    System                                    for implementing which aspects of the
                                                                                     2014 Planning Outline

                    国务院关于批转发展改革委           State Council Notice on Approving         Establishes the Unified Social Credit         2015
                    等部门法人和其他组织统一           the NDRC and Other Departments            Identifier scheme, setting the technical
                    社会信用代码制度建设总体           to Establish the Unified Social Credit    stage for the establishment of a
                    方案的通知                  Identifier System for Legal Persons       nationwide CSCS file system
                                           and Other Organizations

                    国务院关于建立完善守信联           Guiding Opinions of the State             Formally establishes the Unified Rewards      2016
                    合激励和失信联合惩戒制度           Council on Establishing and               and Punishments framework
                    加快推进社会诚信建设的指           Improving the System of Joint
                    导意见                    Incentives for Trustworthiness
                                           and Joint Punishment for
                                           Untrustworthiness and Accelerating
                                           the Construction of Social Credit

                    关于加强和规范守信联合激           Guiding Opinions on Strengthening         Improves standardization of blacklists        2017
                    励和失信联合惩戒对象名单           and Regulating the Management of          and redlists
                    管理工作的指导意见              Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness
                                           and Joint Punishment of
                                           Untrustworthy Targets

                    国务院办公厅关于加快推进           Guiding Opinions on the State             Urges policymakers to double down on          2019
                    社会信用体系建设构建以信           Council on Accelerating the               SCS implementation, adds new angles
                    用为基础的新型监管机制的           Construction of the Social Credit         and nuance to the SCS, ties social credit
                    指导意见                   System and Building a New Credit-         into “Internet + Regulation” model of
                                           based Supervisory Mechanism               algorithmic regulation

                    关于进一步规范公共信用信           Guiding Opinions on Further               Attempts to further standardize the           2020
                    息纳入范围、失信惩戒和信用          Regulating the Scope of Inclusion         procedures for blacklisting, credit
                    修复构建诚信建设长效机制           of Public Credit Information,             repair, the definitions of blacklist-worthy
                    的指导意见（征求意见稿）           Punishment for Untrustworthiness,         offenses, and other elements
                                           and Credit Restoration to Build a
triviumchina.com




                                           Long-term Mechanism for Credit
                                           Construction (Draft for Solicitation of
                                           Comments)




                                                                         70
                   Appendices




                   Appendix III: Blacklists and redlist MOUs




                                                                                                                                    China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   List of national blacklists and redlists, as well as their inter-agency cooperative agreements, as of
                   July 2020. Be aware that some of the below lists, such as the blacklist targeting dishonest behavior
                   in marriage registrations, and the redlist for outstanding youth volunteers, apply only to individuals
                   and not companies, and are part of the larger social credit system.

                    Blacklist MOU (Chinese)          Blacklist targets                     Primary Controlling Agency

                    关于对失信企业协同监管和联合惩                  Parties black/watchlisted by          State Administration for Market
                    戒合作备忘录                           SAMR                                  Regulation

                    关于对失信被执行人实施联合惩戒                  Court defaulters                      Supreme People’s Court
                    的合作备忘录

                    关于在招标投标活动中对失信被执                  Court defaulters restrictions         Supreme People’s Court
                    行人实施联合惩戒的通知                      in government procurement
                                                     bidding

                    关于对失信被执行人实施限制不动                  Court defaulters restrictions in      Supreme People’s Court
                    产交易惩戒措施的通知                       real estate transactions

                    关于对违法失信上市公司相关责任                  Dishonesty in the securities          China Securities Regulatory Commission
                    主体实施联合惩戒措施合作备忘录                  sector

                    关于对重大税收违法案件当事人实                  Parties involved in significant tax   State taxation administration
                    施联合惩戒措施的合作备忘录(2016               violations
                    版)

                    海关失信企业实施联合惩戒的合作                  Customs “Dishonest                    General Administration of Customs
                    备忘录                              enterprises”

                    关于对食品药品生产经营严重失信                  Dishonesty in food and drug           State Administration for Market
                    者开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                    safety                                Regulation

                    关于对统计领域严重失信企业及其                  Dishonesty in the field of            National Bureau of Statistics
                    有关人员开展联合惩戒的合作备忘                  statistics
                    录(修订版)

                    关于对涉金融严重失信人实施联合                  Dishonesty in the financial sector    China Banking and Insurance
                    惩戒的合作备忘录                                                               Regulatory Commission

                    关于对环境保护领域失信生产经营                  Dishonesty in environmental           Ministry of Ecology and Environment
                    单位及其有关人员开展联合惩戒的                  protection
                    合作备忘录

                    关于对安全生产领域失信生产经营                  Dishonesty in the field of work       Bureau of Emergency Management
                    单位及有关人员开展联合惩戒的合                  safety
                    作备忘录

                    关于对政府采购领域严重违法失信                  Dishonesty in government              Ministry of Finance
                    主体开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                   procurement

                    关于对电子商务及分享经济领域炒
triviumchina.com




                                                     Dishonesty in e-commerce and          NDRC, PBOC, CAC
                    信行为相关失信主体实施联合惩戒                  sharing economy
                    的行动计划




                                                                        71
                   Appendices




                    关于对严重违法失信超限超载运输




                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                      Overloaded transport vehicles        Ministry of Transport
                    车辆相关责任主体实施联合惩戒的
                    合作备忘录

                    关于对严重质量违法失信行为当事   Serious (product) quality            State Administration for Market
                    人实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录     violations                           Regulation

                    关于对出入境检验检疫企业实施守   Dishonesty in entry exit             State Administration for Market
                    信联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合作   inspection and quarantine            Regulation
                    备忘录

                    关于对严重拖欠农民工工资用人单   Arrears of migrant workers’          Ministry of Human Resources and Social
                    位及其有关人员开展联合惩戒的合   wages                                Security
                    作备忘录

                    关于对文化市场领域严重违法失信   Dishonesty in the cultural market    Ministry of Culture and Tourism
                    市场主体及有关人员开展联合惩戒
                    的合作备忘录

                    关于对运输物流行业严重违法失信   Dishonesty in transportation and     Ministry of Transport
                    市场主体及其有关人员实施联合惩   logistics
                    戒的合作备忘录

                    关于对农资领域严重失信生产经营   Dishonesty in agricultural           Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
                    单位及其有关人员开展联合惩戒的   materials
                    合作备忘录

                    关于对财政性资金管理使用领域相   Dishonesty in financial fund         Ministry of Finance
                    关失信责任主体实施联合惩戒的合   management and use
                    作备忘录

                    关于对电力行业严重违法失信市场   Dishonesty in the power industry     National Energy Administration
                    主体及其有关人员实施联合惩戒的
                    合作备忘录

                    关于对盐行业生产经营严重失信者   Dishonesty in Salt Industry          State Council Salt Industry Management
                    开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                                           Agency

                    关于在电子认证服务行业实施守信   Dishonest electronic certification   Ministry of Industry and Information
                    联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合作备   service institutions                 Technology
                    忘录

                    关于对社会保险领域严重失信企业   Dishonesty in social insurance       Ministry of Human Resources and Social
                    及其有关人员实施联合惩戒的合作                                        Security
                    备忘录

                    关于对石油天然气行业严重违法失   Oil and gas industry                 Various
                    信主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录

                    关于对慈善捐赠领域相关主体实施   Dishonest charitable                 Ministry of Civil Affairs
                    守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合   organizations / dishonest donors
                    作备忘录              / dishonest beneficiaries

                    关于对房地产领域相关失信责任主   Dishonesty in real estate industry   Ministry of Housing and Urban Rural
                    体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录                                          Development
triviumchina.com




                    关于对保险领域违法失信相关责任   Dishonesty in Insurance industry     China Banking and Insurance
                    主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录                                         Regulatory Commission




                                                        72
                   Appendices




                    关于对对外经济合作领域严重失信




                                                                                                                                 China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                                    Dishonesty in foreign economic       Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of
                    主体开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                  cooperation                          Foreign Affairs

                    关于对国内贸易流通领域严重违法                 Dishonesty in domestic trade         Ministry of Commerce, State
                    失信主体开展联合惩戒的合作备                                                       Administration for Market Regulation
                    忘录

                    关于对婚姻登记严重失信当事人开                 Dishonesty in marriage               Ministry of Civil Affairs
                    展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                     registration

                    关于对家政服务领域相关失信责任                 Dishonesty in the field of           Ministry of Commerce
                    主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录                  domestic services

                    关于对公共资源交易领域严重失信                 Dishonesty in public resource        Various
                    主体开展联合惩戒的备忘录                    trading (bidding / tendering)

                    关于对严重危害正常医疗秩序的失                 Parties endangering the normal       National Health Commission
                    信行为责任人实施联合惩戒合作备                 medical order
                    忘录

                    关于对科研领域相关失信责任主体                 Dishonesty in science and            Ministry of Science and Technology
                    实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录                    technology research

                    关于对知识产权(专利)领域严重失                Dishonesty in IP and patents         National Intellectual Property
                    信主体开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                                                      Administration

                    关于对会计领域违法失信相关责任                 Dishonesty in the accounting         Ministry of Finance
                    主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录                  field

                    关于对旅游领域严重失信相关责任                 Dishonesty in tourism sector         Ministry of Culture and Tourism
                    主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录

                    关于在一定期限内适当限制特定严                 National no-fly list                 Civil Aviation Administration
                    重失信人乘坐民用航空器推动社会
                    信用体系建设的意见

                    关于在一定期限内适当限制特定严                 National no-ride list (trains and    China Railway
                    重失信人乘坐火车推动社会信用体                 boats)
                    系建设的意见



                    Redlists / Targets of Unified   English translation                  Primary controlling agency
                    Rewards

                    关于在电子认证服务行业实施守信                 Authorized / honest electronic       Ministry of Industry and Information
                    联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合作备                 certification service institutions   Technology
                    忘录

                    关于对出入境检验检疫企业实施守                 Honesty in entry exit inspection     State Administration for Market Regu-
                    信联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合作                 and quarantine                       lation
                    备忘录

                    关于对纳税信用A级纳税人实施联                 A-grade taxpayers                    State Taxation Administration
                    合激励措施的合作备忘录
triviumchina.com




                    关于实施优秀青年志愿者守信联合                 Exceptional youth volunteers         Communist Youth League
                    激励加快推进青年信用体系建设的
                    行动计划




                                                                       73
                   Appendices




                    关于对安全生产领域守信生产经营




                                                                                                                      China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                                        Honesty in production safety       Bureau of Emergency Management
                    单位及其有关人员开展联合激励的
                    合作备忘录

                    关于对交通运输工程建设领域守信     Honesty in transport industry      Ministry of Transport
                    典型企业实施联合激励的合作备
                    忘录

                    关于对海关高级认证企业实施联合     High-level customs certification   General Administration of Customs
                    激励的合作备忘录

                    关于对慈善捐赠领域相关主体实施     Honesty / charity                  Ministry of Civil Affairs
                    守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒的合
                    作备忘录



                    Announced / New /   Notes                              Primary stakeholders
                    Developing

                    涉医涉药领域虚假违法广告失信主     Announced in one of the first      China Chemical and Pharmaceutical
                    体名单                 cooperative blacklists between     Industry Association, along with 7 other
                                        industry associations and          industry associations
                                        government

                    交通部将制定共享单车领域失信惩     Plans to create a bike sharing     NDRC in cooperation with private city
                    戒备忘录                industry blacklist                 bicycle sharing companies

                    关于建立残疾儿童康复救助制度的     Plans to develop a blacklist for   Disabled Person’s Federation
                    意见                  the mistreatment of disabled
                                        children.
triviumchina.com




                                                            74
                   Appendices




                   Appendix IV: Key provincial-level social credit regulations by province




                                                                                                                                China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                    Province       Policy name (Chinese)   Policy status    Policy addresses           Date

                    Anhui          安徽省公共信用信息               Effective        General PCI (interim)      2015
                                   征集共享使用暂行办
                                   法

                    Beijing        社会信用条例立法                Unreleased       Provincial social credit   Release planned by
                                                                                                       end of 2020

                    Beijing        北京市公共信用信息               Effective        General PCI                Effective May 2018
                                   管理办法

                    Chongqing      重庆市社会信用条例               Unreleased       Provincial social credit   Released planned by
                                                                                                       end of 2020

                    Chongqing      重庆市企业信用信息               Effective        Enterprise PCI             Effective March 2017
                                   管理办法

                    Fujian         福建省公共信用信息               Effective        General PCI (interim)      Effective August 2015
                                   管理暂行办法

                    Gansu          甘肃省公共信用信息               Draft            General PCI                Open for comments
                                   条例(送审稿)                                                             May 2018

                    Guangdong      广东省社会信用条例               Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released
                                   (草案)                                                                November 2019

                    Guangxi                                None

                    Guizhou        贵州省社会信用条例               Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released June
                                   (草案)                                                                2019

                    Hainan                                 None

                    Hebei          河北省社会信用信息               Effective        General PCI                Effective January 2018
                                   条例

                    Heilongjiang   黑龙江省企业信用信               Effective        Enterprise PCI             Effective May 2018
                                   息征集发布使用办法
                                   (2018年修正本)

                    Henan          河南省社会信用条例               Effective        Provincial social credit   Effective May 2020

                    Hubei          湖北省社会信用信息               Effective        General PCI                Effective July 2017
                                   管理条例

                    Hunan                                  None

                    Inner          内蒙古自治区公共信               Effective        General PCI                Effective June 2018
                    Mongolia       用信息管理办法

                                   江苏省社会信用条例(
triviumchina.com




                    Jiangsu                                Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released April
                                   草案,征求意见稿)                                                           2020

                    Jiangxi                                None

                    Jilin          吉林省社会信用条例               Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released
                                   草案(征求意见稿)                                                           December 2019

                                                                       75
                   Appendices




                                辽宁省公共信用信息




                                                                                                                  China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                    Liaoning                 Effective        General PCI                Effective Feb 2020
                                管理条例

                    Liaoning    辽宁省公共信用信息    Effective        General PCI                Effective January 2016
                                管理办法

                    Ningxia     宁夏社会信用条例     Unreleased       Provincial social credit   Release planned - no
                                                                                         date given

                    Ningxia     宁夏回族自治区公共    Effective        General PCI (interim       Effective July 2019
                                信用信息管理暂行办                     trial)
                                法》实施细则(试行)

                    Qinghai     青海省公共信用信息    Draft            General PCI                Draft released June
                                条例(送审稿)                                                  2020

                    Shaanxi     陕西省社会信用条例    Unreleased       Provincial social credit   Release planned for
                                (草案)                                                     2021

                    Shaanxi     陕西省企业信用监督    Effective        Enterprise PCI             Effective June 2017
                                管理办法

                    Shandong    山东省社会信用条例    Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released April
                                                                                         2020

                    Shanghai    上海市社会信用条例    Effective        Provincial social credit   Effective October 2017

                    Shanxi                   None

                    Sichuan                  None

                    Tianjin     天津市社会信用条例(   Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft released June
                                送审稿)                                                     2020

                    Tibet                    None

                    Xinjiang    自治区社会信用信息    Unreleased       General PCI                Release planned - no
                                管理暂行办法                                                   date given

                    Yunnan      云南省公共信用信息    Unreleased       General PCI                Release planned for
                                管理办法                                                     2020

                    Zhejiang    浙江省社会信用条例    Draft            Provincial social credit   Draft out May 2017
                                (草案)

                    Zhejiang    浙江省公共信用信息    Effective        General PCI                Effective Jan 2018
                                管理条例
triviumchina.com




                                                         76
                                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   References & Notes

                   1 Lin Junyue, Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December
                   2002. Translation.

                   2 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Planning Outline for the Establishment of a Social Credit Sys-
                   tem (2014-2020) (社会信用体系建设规划纲要 (2014—2020年) 的通知), June 27, 2014. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2014-06/27/content_8913.htm.

                   3 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   4 Lauren Dudley, “China’s Ubiquitous Facial Recognition Tech Sparks Privacy Backlash,” Diplomat, March 7,
                   2020. https://thediplomat.com/2020/03/chinas-ubiquitous-facial-recognition-tech-sparks-privacy-backlash/.

                   5 Samantha Hoffman, “Social Credit,” Australian Strategic Policy Institute, June 2018. https://www.aspi.org.au/
                   report/social-credit.

                   6 Larry Catá Backer, “China’s Social Credit System: Data-Driven Governance For a ‘New Era’,” Current History
                   Volume 118:809 (January 2019): 209-214.

                   7 Third Plenary Session of the Eighteenth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, “Decision of
                   the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Several Major Issues in Comprehensively Deepening
                   Reform”, November 12, 2013. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:MvxDJ0OopCkJ:www.gov.
                   cn/jrzg/2013-11/15/content_2528179.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   8 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, “Li Keqiang chaired an Executive
                   Meeting of the State Council (January 15, 2014)” ( 李克强主持召开国务院常务会议(2014年1月15日)), Janu-
                   ary 15, 2014. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/guowuyu-
                   an/2014-01/15/content_2591053.htm.

                   9 Lin Junyue, Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December
                   2002. Translation.

                   10 Lin Junyue, “Why Do We Say the Construction of the Social Credit System Began in 1999?” (林钧跃：为什
                   么说社会信用体系建设起始于1999年?), Xinhua Credit, September 9, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.google-
                   usercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://m.credit100.com/xhxy/c/2019-09-09/535610.shtml.

                   11 Yu Jinming, Lin Junyue & Sun Jie, The National Credit Management System (国家信用管理体系), Social
                   Sciences Academic Press, March 2000. Translation.

                   12 Lin Junyue, “Credit Concepts” (信用概念) in Principles of the Social Credit System, China Fangzheng Press,
                   January December 2002, 2-24. Translation.

                   13 Lin Junyue, Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December
                   2002. Translation.

                   14 Lin Junyue, Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December
                   2002.;Wu Weihai and Zhang Shaoli, Credit of Great Powers: the Global Vision of China’s Social Credit System (大
                   国信用 全球视野的中国社会信用体系), China Planning Press, January 2017. Translation.
triviumchina.com




                   15 Lin Junyue, Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December
                   2002, 50. Translation.




                                                                           77
                   References & Notes



                   16 Lin Junyue, “Legal Environment for the Establishment of a Credit System” (建立信用体系的法律环境) in




                                                                                                                                          China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Principles of the Social Credit System, China Fangzheng Press, December 2002, 140-165. Translation.

                   17 Lin Junyue, “The Credit Market and its Data Environment” (征信市场及其数据环境) in Principles of the
                   Social Credit System, China Fangzheng Press, December 2002, 61-122. Translation.

                   18 Lin Junyue, “The Social Credit System and its Framework” (社会信用体系及其框架) in Principles of the
                   Social Credit System, China Fangzheng Press, December 2002, 39-53. Translation.

                   19 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Planning Outline for the Establishment of a Social Credit Sys-
                   tem (2014-2020) (社会信用体系建设规划纲要 (2014—2020年) 的通知), June 27, 2014. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2014-06/27/content_8913.htm.

                   20 Lin Junyue, “Why Do We Say the Construction of the Social Credit System Began in 1999?” (林钧跃：为什
                   么说社会信用体系建设起始于1999年?), Xinhua Credit, September 9, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.google-
                   usercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://m.credit100.com/xhxy/c/2019-09-09/535610.shtml.

                   21 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Several Opinions on the Construction of
                   a Social Credit System (国务院办公厅关于社会信用体系建设的若干意见), March 28, 2008. Translation. http://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2008-03/28/content_1923.
                   htm.

                   22 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Notice on the Establishment of the Joint
                   Inter-ministerial Council System of the State Council’s Social Credit System (国务院办公厅关于建立国务院社会
                   信用体系建设部际联席会议制度的通知), March 28, 2008. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2008-03/28/content_1907.htm.

                   23 Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions
                   on Promoting the Institutionalization of Integrity Construction (关于推进诚信建设制度化的意见), July 23, 2014.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2014-08/01/con-
                   tent_2728487.htm.

                   24 Roger Creemers and China Law Translate trans., “State Council Notice Concerning Issuance of the Planning
                   Outline for the Establishment of a Social Credit System (2014-2020),” State Council of the People’s Republic of
                   China, April 27, 2015. https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/socialcreditsystem/.

                   25 Wang Lianzhang, “County Government on Legal Naughty List for Unpaid Debts,” Sixth Tone, April 1, 2017.
                   http://www.sixthtone.com/news/2131/county-government-on-legal-naughty-list-for-unpaid-debts.

                   26 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Further
                   Regulating the Scope of Inclusion of Public Credit Information, Punishment for Untrustworthiness, and Credit
                   Restoration to Build a Long-term Mechanism for Credit Construction (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (关于进
                   一步规范公共信用信息纳入范围、失信惩戒和信用修复构建诚信建设长效机制的指导意见（征求意见稿）),
                   July 22, 2020. Translation. https://hd.ndrc.gov.cn/yjzx/yjzx_add.jsp?SiteId=339.

                   27 Jeremy Daum, “Untrustworthy: Social Credit Isn’t What You Think It Is”. Jeremy Daum, “Giving Credit 3:
                   Inputs and Outputs,” China Law Translate, Jun 27, 2019. https://verfassungsblog.de/untrustworthy-social-credit-
                   isnt-what-you-think-it-is/.

                   28 Jamie P. Horsley, “China’s Corporate Social Credit ‘System,’” Briefing, U.S.-China Business Council, Wash-
                   ington, DC, January 31, 2020. https://law.yale.edu/sites/default/files/area/center/china/document/horsley_china_cor-
                   porate_social_credit_1-31-20.pdf.
triviumchina.com




                   29 Shanghai Development and Reform Commission, Shanghai City Social Credit Regulations (上海市社会信用
                   条例), December 31, 2016. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:NsY5tAyQsLUJ:www.shang-
                   hai.gov.cn/nw2/nw2314/nw2315/nw4411/u21aw1187561.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.




                                                                           78
                   References & Notes



                   30 Ding Xiaodong, “Law According to the Chinese Communist Party: Constitutionalism and Socialist Rule




                                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   of Law” Modern China, January 8, 2017, Volume 43, Issue 3, 322-352. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/
                   abs/10.1177/0097700416686731.

                   31 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Plan Outline of the Divi-
                   sion of Labor for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020) (国家发展改革委 人民银行关于印发
                   《社会信用体系建设规划纲要(2014—2020年)任务分工》和《社会信用体系建设三年重点工作任务(2014—
                   2016)》的通知, December 16, 2014. Translation. https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201501/t20150105_963726.
                   html.

                   32 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, “Deputy Director Lian
                   Weiliang Presided over the ‘Social Credit System Construction Work’ Special Meeting” (连维良副主任主持召开“
                   社会信用体系建设工作”专题会议), September 21, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fzggw/jgsj/cjd/sjdt/201709/t20170921_1111415.html.

                   33 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Interim Regulations on Enterprise Information Disclosure
                   (State Council Order No. 654) (企业信息公示暂行条例(国务院令第654号)), August 23, 2014. Translation. http://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/2014-08/23/content_2739774.htm.

                   34 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Notice of the General Office of the
                   State Council on the Establishment of the Joint Inter-ministerial Joint Council for the Development of the Social
                   Credit System (国务院办公厅关于建立国务院社会信用体系建设部际联席会议制度的通知), April 18, 2007.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2007/
                   content_632090.htm.; Credit Jiaozuo, “4 New Members! The number of member units of the Inter-ministerial Joint
                   Conference on the Construction of the Social Credit System Increases to 46” (新增4家！社会信用体系建设部际联
                   席会议成员单位调整为46家), April 18, 2007. Translation. http://www.creditjz.gov.cn/24/7012.html.

                   35 State Information Center of the People’s Republic of China, “General Overview of the National E-government
                   Extranet in the First Half of 2019” (2019年上半年国家电子政务外网总体概况), December 12, 2019. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.sic.gov.cn/News/462/10367.htm.

                   36 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   37 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Further
                   Regulating the Scope of Inclusion of Public Credit Information, Punishment for Untrustworthiness, and Credit
                   Restoration to Build a Long-term Mechanism for Credit Construction (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (关于进
                   一步规范公共信用信息纳入范围、失信惩戒和信用修复构建诚信建设长效机制的指导意见（征求意见稿）),
                   July 22, 2020. Translation. https://hd.ndrc.gov.cn/yjzx/yjzx_add.jsp?SiteId=339.

                   38 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Plan Outline of the Divi-
                   sion of Labor for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020) (国家发展改革委 人民银行关于印发
                   《社会信用体系建设规划纲要(2014—2020年)任务分工》和《社会信用体系建设三年重点工作任务(2014—
                   2016)》的通知, December 16, 2014. Translation. https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201501/t20150105_963726.
                   html.

                   39 Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of the People’s Republic of China, Regulations on Social
                   Insurance Management Services (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (社会保险经办管理服务条例（征求意见
                   稿), November 13, 2018. Translation. http://www.mohrss.gov.cn/SYrlzyhshbzb/zcfg/SYzhengqiuyijian/zq_fgs/201811/
triviumchina.com




                   t20181113_304675.html.

                   40 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, Notice on the Establishment of
                   Credit Files of Agricultural Materials and Agricultural Products Producers and Operational Entities (农业部办公




                                                                          79
                   References & Notes



                   厅关于建立农资和农产品生产经营主体信用档案的通知), August 1, 2017. Translation. http://www.moa.gov.cn/




                                                                                                                                          China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   nybgb/2017/dbq/201801/t20180103_6133993.htm.

                   41 Ministry of Ecology and Environment of the People’s Republic of China, Supporting Documents for the “Su-
                   pervision and Management Measures for Compiling Environmental Impact Assessments for Construction Projects”
                   (关于发布《建设项目环境影响报告书（表）编制监督管理办法》配套文件的公告), October 24, 2019. Trans-
                   lation. http://www.mee.gov.cn/xxgk2018/xxgk/xxgk01/201910/t20191028_739489.html.

                   42 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Plan Outline of the Divi-
                   sion of Labor for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020) (国家发展改革委 人民银行关于印发
                   《社会信用体系建设规划纲要(2014—2020年)任务分工》和《社会信用体系建设三年重点工作任务(2014—
                   2016)》的通知, December 16, 2014. Translation. https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201501/t20150105_963726.
                   html.

                   43 Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions
                   on Promoting the Institutionalization of Integrity Construction (关于推进诚信建设制度化的意见), July 23, 2014.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2014-08/01/con-
                   tent_2728487.htm.

                   44 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Overall Plan for the Establishment of a Unified Social Credit
                   Code System for Legal Persons and Other Organizations (法人和其他组织统一社会信用代码制度建设总体
                   方案), June 11, 2015. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2015-06/17/content_9858.htm.

                   45 Jamie P. Horsley, “China’s Corporate Social Credit ‘System’,” Briefing, U.S.-China Business Council, Wash-
                   ington, DC, January 31, 2020. https://law.yale.edu/sites/default/files/area/center/china/document/horsley_china_cor-
                   porate_social_credit_1-31-20.pdf. Translation of: Shanghai Development and Reform Commission, Shanghai City
                   Social Credit Regulations (上海市社会信用条例), December 31, 2016. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:NsY5tAyQsLUJ:www.shanghai.gov.cn/nw2/nw2314/nw2315/nw4411/u21aw1187561.html+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   46 Joint Meeting Office of Jilin Province Social Credit System Construction, Notice on Soliciting Public Com-
                   ments on the “Draft Social Credit Regulations of Jilin Province (Draft for Comments)” (关于《吉林省社会信用条
                   例草案(征求意见稿)》公开征求意见的通知), December 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercon-
                   tent.com/search?q=cache:http://credit.jl.gov.cn/contents/955/37818.html.

                   47 Jeremy Daum, “Giving Credit 3: Inputs and Outputs,” China Law Translate, January 15, 2018. https://www.
                   chinalawtranslate.com/en/giving-credit-3-inputs-and-outputs.

                   48 Jeremy Daum, “Giving Credit 3: Inputs and Outputs,” China Law Translate, January 15, 2018. https://www.
                   chinalawtranslate.com/en/giving-credit-3-inputs-and-outputs.;State Council of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Interim Regulations on Enterprise Information Disclosure (State Council Order No. 654) (企业信息公示暂行条例(
                   国务院令第654号)), August 23, 2014. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://
                   www.gov.cn/zhengce/2014-08/23/content_2739774.htm.

                   49 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Credit Information Catalogue of the National Credit Information Sharing Platform (Member Unit of Inter-Minis-
                   try Joint Meeting 2016 Edition) (国家发展改革委办公厅关于印发《全国信用信息共享平台信用信息目录 (
                   部际联席会议成员单位 2016 年))》的通知), 2016. Translation. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/xyjs/tzgg/201608/
                   P020160812332922961444.pdf.

                   50 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Further
triviumchina.com




                   Regulating the Scope of Inclusion of Public Credit Information, Punishment for Untrustworthiness, and Credit
                   Restoration to Build a Long-term Mechanism for Credit Construction (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (关于进
                   一步规范公共信用信息纳入范围、失信惩戒和信用修复构建诚信建设长效机制的指导意见（征求意见稿）),
                   July 22, 2020. Translation. https://hd.ndrc.gov.cn/yjzx/yjzx_add.jsp?SiteId=339.



                                                                           80
                   References & Notes



                   51 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Credit Information Catalogue of the National Credit Information Sharing Platform (Member Unit of Inter-Minis-
                   try Joint Meeting 2016 Edition) (国家发展改革委办公厅关于印发《全国信用信息共享平台信用信息目录 (
                   部际联席会议成员单位 2016 年))》的通知), 2016. Translation. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/xyjs/tzgg/201608/
                   P020160812332922961444.pdf.

                   52 National Public Credit Information Center, National Credit Information Sharing Platform Credit Information
                   Collection Catalogue (2019 Edition) (全国信用信息共享平台信用信息归集目录(2019年版)), June 2019. Transla-
                   tion. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/gywm/xyml/201909/P020190903352933734904.pdf.

                   53 Record type: National Public Credit Information Center, National Credit Information Sharing Platform Credit
                   Information Collection Catalogue (2019 Edition) (全国信用信息共享平台信用信息归集目录(2019年版)), June
                   2019. Translation. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/gywm/xyml/201909/P020190903352933734904.pdf; Other columns:
                   compiled by Trivium China from NDRC technical framework documentation, reviews of existing corporate social
                   credit record databases, and prior knowledge of Chinese business registration procedures.

                   54 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, “Deputy Director Lian
                   Weiliang Presided over the National Symposium on the Construction of a Unified Credit Information Sharing and
                   Exchange Platform” (连维良副主任主持召开全国统一的信用信息共享交换平台建设工作座谈会), November
                   30, 2015. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/guowuyuan/
                   vom/2015-11/30/content_5018242.htm.

                   55 State Information Center of the People’s Republic of China, “General Overview of the National E-government
                   Extranet in the First Half of 2019” (2019年上半年国家电子政务外网总体概况), December 12, 2019. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.sic.gov.cn/News/462/10367.htm.

                   56 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, General Framework for
                   Standard System of Public Credit Information (国家发展改革委办公厅关于印发实施《公共信用信息标准体
                   系框架》等六项工程标准的通知), November 15, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201803/t20180302_962672.html; National Development and
                   Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Means and Interface Specifications for Public Credit Infor-
                   mation Exchange (公共信用信息交换方式及接口规范), November 15, 2017. Translation; National Development
                   and Reform Commission, Guidelines for the Compilation of the Public Credit Information Resources Catalogue (
                   公共信用信息资源目录编制指南), November 15, 2017. Translation; National Development and Reform Commis-
                   sion, Rules for Public Credit Information Classification and Coding (公共信用信息分类与编码规范), November
                   15, 2017. Translation. ; National Development and Reform Commission, Rules for Publication of Public Credit
                   Information (公共信用信息公示规范), November 15, 2017. Translation; National Development and Reform Com-
                   mission, Specification for Basic Data Item of Public Credit Information (公共信用信息基础数据项规范), Novem-
                   ber 15, 2017. Translation.

                   57 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Guide for Compiling the
                   Catalog of Public Information Resources (公共信用信息资源目录编制指南), November 15, 2017. Translation.
                   https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/biaozhunguifan/zonghexingbiaozhunguifan/201803/t20180302_109779.html.

                   58 China National Institute of Standardization, “General Framework for the Standard System of Public Credit
                   Information (公共信用信息标准总体架构),” National Public Service Platform for Standards Information, accessed
                   June 11, 2020. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://std.samr.gov.cn/gb/
                   search/gbDetailed?id=95A3CA380B40D09FE05397BE0A0A47FC.

                   59 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Guide for Compiling the
                   Catalog of Public Information Resources (公共信用信息资源目录编制指南), November 15, 2017. Translation.
                   https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/biaozhunguifan/zonghexingbiaozhunguifan/201803/t20180302_109779.html.
triviumchina.com




                   60 State Administration for Industry and Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, “Creating a National
                   Network - One of the Records of the Construction of the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System” (
                   织好织密 ‘全国一张网’—国家企业信用信息公示系统建设纪实之一), March 21, 2017. Translation. http://web-



                                                                           81
                   References & Notes



                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2017-03/21/content_5179369.htm.




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   61 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   62 National Public Credit Information Center, “Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Some
                   Natural Gas Related Enterprises (Phase IV)” (涉部分天然气领域企业公共信用综合评价结果(第四期)), June 20,
                   2019. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xinxigongshi/strqqy/201906/t20190620_159295.html; Sichuan
                   Development and Reform Commission Party Branch of the General Credit Office, “Taking the Lead to Make Good
                   Use of the Results of Public Credit Evaluation and do a Good Job of Credit Supervision in Five Major Industries” (
                   牵头开展用好公共信用评价结果切实做好五大行业信用监管工作), January 16, 2019. Translation. http://www.
                   scjgdj.gov.cn/B000000237/201901/69711.html.

                   63 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Strengthen-
                   ing and Regulating the Management of the List of Targets for Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Punish-
                   ment for Dishonesty (关于加强和规范守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒对象名单管理工作的指导意见), October
                   30, 2017. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:hze2bITWZMEJ:https://www.ndrc.
                   gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/ghxwj/201711/t20171103_960925.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   64 National Public Credit Information Center, “2018 Project Research Solicitation Notice” (国家公共信用信息中
                   心2018年课题研究征集公告), October 10, 2018. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=-
                   cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xwdt/tzgg/201810/t20181010_959241.html.

                   65 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   66 State Information Center, Big Data Report on Trade Cooperation Under the Belt and Road Initiative (“一带一
                   路”贸易合作大数据报告), May 2018. Translation.

                   67 State Information Center of the People’s Republic of China, “General Overview of the National E-government
                   Extranet in the First Half of 2019” (2019年上半年国家电子政务外网总体概况), December 12, 2019. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.sic.gov.cn/News/462/10367.htm.

                   68 Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions
                   on Promoting the Institutionalization of Integrity Construction (关于推进诚信建设制度化的意见), July 23, 2014.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2014-08/01/con-
                   tent_2728487.htm.

                   69 China Pharmaceutical Industry Association, Administrative Measures for the List of Untrustworthy Subjects
                   in the Pharmaceutical Industry (Trial) (医药行业失信主体名单管理办法 (试行)), Credit China, November 19,
                   2019. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/hangyexinyong_824/faguiguifanbiaozhun/quanguoxinghangyexie-
                   hui/201911/t20191119_175873.html.

                   70 Jeremy Daum, “Social Credit & the Law,” China Law Translate, July 29, 2020. https://www.chinalawtranslate.
                   com/en/social-credit-the-law.
triviumchina.com




                   71 General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China, Measures of the General Administration
                   of Customs of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Credit Management (中华人民共和国海关企业信用管
                   理办法), March 3, 2018. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.customs.
                   gov.cn/customs/302249/302266/302268/1471430/index.html.




                                                                           82
                   References & Notes



                   72 Jeremy Daum, “The redlists are coming! The blacklists are coming!” China Law Translate, March 3, 2018.




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/the-redlists-are-coming-the-blacklists-are-coming/.

                   73 State Administration of Work Safety of the People’s Republic of China, Implementation Measures for Joint
                   Incentives for Trustworthy Behaviors in Work Safety (对安全生产领域守信行为开展联合激励的实施办法), De-
                   cember 7, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://www.mem.gov.cn/gk/
                   gwgg/gfxwj/2017/201801/t20180117_242812.shtml.

                   74 National Development and Reform Commission and Supreme People’s Court, Memorandum of Cooperation
                   on Joint Punishment of Seriously Untrustworthy Entities in the Field of Foreign Economic Cooperation (关于印
                   发对失信被执行人实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录的通知), January 1, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.google-
                   usercontent.com/search?q=cache:NpVKk_JoKrsJ:www.csrc.gov.cn/pub/newsite/flb/flvcxjs/cxjslhjcbwl/201805/
                   t20180530_338881.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   75 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Memorandum of Cooperation
                   on Joint Punishment of Seriously Untrustworthy Entities in the Field of Oil and Natural Gas (关于对石油天然
                   气行业严重违法失信主体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录), August 2, 2017. Translation. http://www.gov.cn/xinw-
                   en/2017-08/28/content_5221065.htm.

                   76 Meng Meng and Aizhu Chen, “Factbox: Catching tigers and hidden flies in China’s energy sector,” Reuters,
                   September 21, 2018. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-corruption-energy-factbox/factbox-catching-tigers-
                   and-hidden-flies-in-chinas-energy-sector-idUSKCN1M1120.

                   77 Jeremy Daum, “Social Credit & the Law,” China Law Translate, July 29, 2020. https://www.chinalawtranslate.
                   com/en/social-credit-the-law.

                   78 National Public Credit Information Center, National Credit Information Sharing Platform Credit Information
                   Collection Catalogue (2019 Edition) (全国信用信息共享平台信用信息归集目录(2019年版)), June 2019. Transla-
                   tion. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/gywm/xyml/201909/P020190903352933734904.pdf.

                   79 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, Memorandum of Cooperation on
                   Jointly Punishing Seriously Dishonest Production and Distribution Entities and Their Relevant Personnel in the
                   Field of Agricultural Supplies (关于对农资领域严重失信生产经营单位及其有关人员开展联合惩戒的合作备忘
                   录), February 23, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.jgj.moa.
                   gov.cn/xytx/201904/t20190418_6186180.htm.

                   80 State Taxation Administration of the People’s Republic of China, Memorandum of Cooperation on Joint In-
                   centives for Trustworthy Enterprises in the Fields of Transportation Engineering and Construction (印发《关于对
                   交通运输工程建设领域守信典型企业实施联合激励的合作备忘录》的通知), February 28, 2018. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.chinatax.gov.cn/n810341/n810755/c3412441/
                   content.html.

                   81 Jeremy Daum, “Social Credit & the Law,” China Law Translate, July 29, 2020. https://www.chinalawtranslate.
                   com/en/social-credit-the-law.

                   82 Jeremy Daum, “Social Credit & the Law,” China Law Translate, July 29, 2020. https://www.chinalawtranslate.
                   com/en/social-credit-the-law.

                   83 State Administration for Industry and Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, “Creating a National
                   Network - One of the Records of the Construction of the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System” (
                   织好织密 ‘全国一张网’—国家企业信用信息公示系统建设纪实之一), March 21, 2017. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2017-03/21/content_5179369.htm.
triviumchina.com




                   84 China Securities Regulatory Commission, Memorandum of Cooperation on Imposing Joint Punishment on
                   Persons with Serious Financial Dishonesty (印发《关于对涉金融严重失信人实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录》的
                   通知), May 31, 2018. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:zfpvwPuO3GIJ:www.
                   csrc.gov.cn/pub/newsite/flb/flvcxjs/cxjslhjcbwl/201805/t20180531_338899.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.



                                                                           83
                   References & Notes



                   85 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, the Supreme People’s




                                                                                                                                         China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Court and the Ministry of Land and Resources of the People’s Republic of China, Notice on Implementing Puni-
                   tive Measures of Restrictions on Real Estate Transactions against Dishonest Persons Subject to Enforcement (关
                   于对失信被执行人实施限制不动产交易惩戒措施的通知), March 1, 2018. Translation. http://webcache.goo-
                   gleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:9mz97Gtz60wJ:www.gov.cn/xinwen/2018-03/16/content_5274726.htm+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   86 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Strengthen-
                   ing and Regulating the Management of the List of Targets for Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Punish-
                   ment for Dishonesty (关于加强和规范守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒对象名单管理工作的指导意见), October
                   30, 2017. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:hze2bITWZMEJ:https://www.ndrc.
                   gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/ghxwj/201711/t20171103_960925.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   87 Pan Ting, “Lian Weiliang: Credit Repair is not a Simple “Whitewashing the Record,” nor is it a Simple Way
                   to “Get out of Punishment” (连维良:信用修复不是简单的“洗白记录” ，也不是简单的“退出惩戒”), National
                   Business Daily, July 19. 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.
                   nbd.com.cn/articles/2019-07-18/1355463.html.

                   88 Jeremy Daum, “Social Credit & the Law,” China Law Translate, July 29, 2020. https://www.chinalawtranslate.
                   com/en/social-credit-the-law.

                   89 Credit China, “Credit Repair Procedures Process Guide” (信用修复流程指引), Translation. https://www.cred-
                   itchina.gov.cn/xyxf/lczy/.

                   90 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Notice on Further Improving the ‘Credit China’ Website and Local Credit Portal Website Mechanisms for Credit
                   Repair of Information on Administrative Punishments (国家发展改革委办公厅关于进一步完善“信用中国”网站
                   及地方信用门户网站行政处罚信息信用修复机制的通知), April 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleus-
                   ercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201905/t20190514_962445.html.

                   91 Geoffrey Smith, “OSI axes Shanghai firm that sold tainted food to KFC, McDonald’s,” Fortune, September 22,
                   2014. https://fortune.com/2014/09/22/osi-axes-shanghai-firm-that-sold-tainted-food-to-kfc-mcdonalds.

                   92 Shanghai Food Safety Network, “Announcement Regarding the Key Supervision List of Serious Violator
                   among Food and Drug Manufacturers and Related Responsible Persons (No. 2017004) (June 2, 2017)” (上海市食
                   品药品严重违法生产经营者与相关责任人员重点监管名单公告（2017004号）（2017年6月2日）), September
                   22, 2014. Translation. http://www.spaq.sh.cn/renda/n36574/n36754/n36755/u1ai6245860.html.

                   93 Wu Chunwei, “Hufuxi Foods Produces Fake and Shoddy Products and is Included in the Illegal and Dishonest
                   Enterprise Blacklist” (沪福喜食品生产伪劣产品 被纳入违法失信”黑名单”), Eastday, October 4, 2016. http://
                   sh.eastday.com/m/20161004/u1a9784299.html.

                   94 Caixin, “The Second Anniversary of Shanghai Fuxi’s Expired Meat Incident” (上海福喜过期肉事件两周年).
                   Translation. http://special.caixin.com/event_0720_1/.

                   95 Qichacha, “OSI Investment Group” (欧喜投资). https://www.qcc.com/groupdetail_m0eb351db16f535e0550e-
                   ad2fdccbf72.html.

                   96 Credit China, “Credit Repair Procedures Process Guide” (信用修复流程指引), Translation. https://www.cred-
                   itchina.gov.cn/xyxf/lczy/.

                   97 Credit China, “Credit Repair Procedures Process Guide” (信用修复流程指引), Translation. https://www.cred-
                   itchina.gov.cn/xyxf/lczy/.
triviumchina.com




                   98 State Administration for Market Regulation of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for the Administration
                   of the List of Serious Illegal and Dishonest Acts (Draft for Comments) (严重违法失信名单管理办法 [修订草案征
                   求意见稿]), July 10, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.moj.



                                                                           84
                   References & Notes



                   gov.cn/news/content/2019-07/10/zlk_3227858.html. ; State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Transcript of




                                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   the Policy Briefing of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China (国务院政策吹风会文字实录), July 18,
                   2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019zccfh/49/
                   wzsl.htm. ; “‘Credit China’ Website Administrative Penalty Information Credit Repair Guide (“信用中国”网站行政
                   处罚信息信用修复指南),” Credit China, July 1, 2019. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xyxf/xfzn/.

                   99 Stacey Vanek Smith and Cardiff Garcia, “What It’s Like to Be on the Blacklist in China’s New Social Credit
                   System,” National Public Radio, October 31, 2018. https://www.npr.org/2018/10/31/662696776/what-its-like-to-be-
                   on-the-blacklist-in-chinas-new-social-credit-system.

                   100 Zhou Tailai and Matthew Walsh, “In Depth: How Chinese Companies Can Get Off Social Credit Blacklists,”
                   Caixin, May 27, 2020. https://www.caixinglobal.com/2020-05-27/in-depth-how-chinese-companies-can-get-off-so-
                   cial-credit-blacklists-101559282.html.

                   101 “Action Plan on Implementing Joint Disciplinary Measures for Untrustworthy Subjects Related to Credibility
                   in the Field of E-Commerce and the Sharing Economy (关于对电子商务及分享经济领域炒信行为相关失信主体
                   实施联合惩戒的行动计划), Credit China, January 9, 2018. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/biaozhun-
                   guifan/hangyexingbiaozhunguifan/201801/t20180109_105897.html. ; State Council of the People’s Republic of Chi-
                   na, The National Development and Reform Commission and other 8 Departments Jointly Issued the ‘Action Plan on
                   Implementing Joint Disciplinary Measures for Untrustworthy Subjects Related to Credibility in the Field of E-Com-
                   merce and the Sharing Economy’ (国家发展改革委等8部门联合发布 ‘关于对电子商务及分享经济领域炒信行
                   为相关失信主体实施联合惩戒的行动计划’), November 11, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2016-11/11/content_5131427.htm.

                   102 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   103 China Pharmaceutical Industry Association, Administrative Measures for the List of Untrustworthy Subjects
                   in the Pharmaceutical Industry (Trial) (医药行业失信主体名单管理办法 (试行)), Credit China, November 19,
                   2019. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/hangyexinyong_824/faguiguifanbiaozhun/quanguoxinghangyexie-
                   hui/201911/t20191119_175873.html.

                   104 Larry Catá Backer, “And an Algorithm to Bind Them All? Social Credit, Data Driven Governance, and the
                   Emergence of an Operating System for Global Normative Orders,” Entangled Legalities Workshop 24 & 25 May
                   2018, May 21, 2018.

                   105 State Administration for Market Regulation, Exploring Credit Grading and Classification, and Strengthening
                   Post-event Supervision (探索信用分级分类 加强事中事后监管), October 21, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:42xf4inA2B4J:www.samr.gov.cn/zljds/sjdt/gzdt/201910/t20191021_307507.
                   html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   106 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   107 European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. “The Digital Hand: How China’s Corporate Social Credit
                   System Conditions Market Actors.” August 28, 2019.
triviumchina.com




                   108 State Taxation Administration of the People’s Republic of China, Announcement on Issuing “Tax Payment
                   Credit Evaluation Indicators and Evaluation Methods (Trial)” (关于发布《纳税信用评价指标和评价方式(试
                   行)》的公告), October 25, 2014. Translation. http://www.chinatax.gov.cn/n810341/n810765/n812141/n812242/




                                                                          85
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                   c1078412/content.html?wscckey=3b691335dffeb926_1593333695. ; State Taxation Administration of the Peo-




                                                                                                                                      China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   ple’s Republic of China, Announcement on Issuing the “Tax Payment Credit Management Measures (Trial)” (关于
                   发布《纳税信用管理办法(试行)》的公告), July 4, 2014. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:http://www.chinatax.gov.cn/n810341/n810755/c1150610/content.html.

                   109 Ministry of Ecology and Environment of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions on Further Deepening
                   Ecological and Environmental Regulatory Services to Promote High-Quality Economic Development (关于进一步
                   深化生态环境监管服务推动经济高质量发展的意见), September 8, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleus-
                   ercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.mee.gov.cn/xxgk2018/xxgk/xxgk03/201909/t20190911_733474.html.

                   110 Datong Health and Family Planning Commission, Datong City Medical Institution Credit Management
                   Evaluation Implementation Plan (大同市卫生和计划生育委员会关于印发《大同市医疗机构信用管理
                   评价实施方案》的通知), November 13, 2017. Translation. http://www.dt.gov.cn/dtzww/tzggnr/201711/59b-
                   8594818da4508a7b1649127a20b77.shtml.

                   111 Ministry of Civil Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, Comprehensive Supervision Measures for In-
                   dustry Associations and Chambers of Commerce (十部门印发《行业协会商会综合监管办法》), December 19,
                   2016. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:P25NZmMroyYJ:www.gov.cn/xinw-
                   en/2016-12/29/content_5154008.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   112 China Construction Machinery Association, “Notice on the Issuance of the ‘Administrative Measures on
                   Credit Rating Evaluation of Enterprises in the Chinese Construction Machinery Industry’” (关于发布《中国工程机
                   械行业企业信用等级评价管理办法》的通知), China Industrial News Network, May 7, 2020. Translation. https://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Uztjj7ISvNQJ:https://epaper.gmw.cn/gmrb/html/2019-08/04/
                   nw.D110000gmrb_20190804_4-03.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   113 Wuhan Software Industry Association, “Wuhan Software Enterprise Credit AAA Grade Certification Process
                   and Requirements” (武汉市软件企业信用AAA等级证书办理流程和要求), May 9, 2020. Translation. https://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Uztjj7ISvNQJ:https://epaper.gmw.cn/gmrb/html/2019-08/04/
                   nw.D110000gmrb_20190804_4-03.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   114 China Industrial Gases Industry Association, China Gas Industry Enterprise Credit Rating Evaluation Manage-
                   ment Measures (中国气体行业企业信用等级评价管理办法), August 3, 2017. Translation. http://www.cigia.org.cn/
                   uploads/soft/170803/14-1FP3141J9.pdf.

                   115 “Lian Weilang: Realize the Role of Industry Associations in Promoting the Social Credit System” (连维良：
                   发挥行业协会作用 更积极有效推动社会信用体系建设 ), Credit China, November 24, 2017. Translation. https://
                   www.creditchina.gov.cn/zhengcefagui/xianjixiance/201711/t20171121_96522.html.

                   116 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, “Jointly Constructing the
                   Shared Credit China System - Deputy Director Lian Weijing During the Meeting of Credit Bureaus” (共建共享信
                   用中国-连维良副主任主持出席部分征信机构座谈会), May 17, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.googleuser-
                   content.com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fzggw/jgsj/cjd/sjdt/201605/t20160517_1111376.html. ; Wen
                   Yuan, “Promote the high-quality development of the enterprise credit market” (推动企业征信市场高质量发展),
                   Guang Ming Daily, August 4, 2019. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Uztjj7IS-
                   vNQJ:https://epaper.gmw.cn/gmrb/html/2019-08/04/nw.D110000gmrb_20190804_4-03.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph. ; General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic
                   of China, Notice of the General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission on Promoting and
                   Applying the Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Market Subjects (国家发展改革委办公
                   厅关于推送并应用市场主体公共信用综合评价结果的通知), September 1, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-09/16/content_5430181.htm.
triviumchina.com




                   117 National Public Credit Information Center of People’s Republic of China, “Announcement of the Comprehen-
                   sive Evaluation Results (Phase 3) of the Public Credit of Some Road Passenger Transport Enterprises” (关于公布部
                   分道路客运企业公共信用综合评价结果 [第三期] 的公告), May 15, 2019. Translation. http://fgw.nmg.gov.cn/xyn-
                   mg/gndt/4428.jhtml. ; National Public Credit Information Center, “Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public



                                                                          86
                   Section 1 - Introduction



                   Credit of Some Natural Gas Related Enterprises (Phase IV)” (涉部分天然气领域企业公共信用综合评价结果(第




                                                                                                                                       China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   四期)), June 20, 2019. Translation. https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xinxigongshi/strqqy/201906/t20190620_159295.
                   html.

                   118 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Notice of the General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission on Promoting and Applying the
                   Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Market Subjects (国家发展改革委办公厅关于推送并应
                   用市场主体公共信用综合评价结果的通知), September 1, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-09/16/content_5430181.htm; Credit China, “Comprehensive
                   Evaluation Results of Public Credit,” https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xinxigongshi/strqqy/.

                   119 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Notice of the General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission on Promoting and Applying the
                   Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Market Subjects (国家发展改革委办公厅关于推送并应
                   用市场主体公共信用综合评价结果的通知), September 1, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-09/16/content_5430181.htm.

                   120 “National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China: Promote and Apply the
                   Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Market Subjects” (发改委：推送并应用市场主体公共
                   信用综合评价结果), Shanghai Securities News, September 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercon-
                   tent.com/search?q=cache:http://news.cnstock.com/news,bwkx-201909-4430717.htm.

                   121 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, “Lian Weiliang, Deputy
                   Director, State Council Policy Routine Briefing, Question Two: About the Comprehensive Evaluation System of
                   Public Credit” (连维良副主任国务院政策例行吹风会答问之二：关于公共信用综合评价制度), July 24, 2019.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fzggw/jgsj/zys/
                   sjdt/201907/t20190724_970461.html.

                   122 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the State Council on Vigorously
                   Advancing “Internet Plus” (国务院关于积极推进“互联网+”行动的指导意见), July 4, 2015. Translation. http://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Ya82k-pxBvkJ:www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2015-07/04/con-
                   tent_10002.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   123 General Office of the Hubei Provincial Government, Hubei Province ‘Internet + Supervision’ System Con-
                   struction Plan (湖北省“互联网+监管”系统建设方案), July 29, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercon-
                   tent.com/search?q=cache:PN6lJPqUvbIJ:www.hubei.gov.cn/govfile/ezbh/201908/t20190823_1408363.shtml+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   124 General Office of the State Administration for Market Regulation of the People’s Republic of China, Notice on
                   the Implementation of Enterprise Credit Risk Classification Management Pilots in Some Regions (关于在部分地区
                   开展企业信用风险分类管理工作试点的通知), September 2, 2019. Translation. http://zjj.fujian.gov.cn/wj/201910/
                   P020191018621976110866.pdf.

                   125 European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. “The Digital Hand: How China’s Corporate Social Credit
                   System Conditions Market Actors.” August 28, 2019. ; China Government Procurement Network, “National Gov-
                   ernment Service Platform ‘Internet + Supervision’ Application System Construction Project Winning Announce-
                   ment” (国家政务服务平台“互联网+监管”应用系统建设项目中标公告), August 3, 2017. Translation. http://www.
                   ccgp.gov.cn/cggg/zygg/zbgg/201903/t20190321_11786081.htm.

                   126 Henan Daily, “Henan Explores ‘One-stop Online Government Administration’ Henan Leads the Country in
                   Constructing its ‘Internet + Supervision’ System” (‘一网通管’ 的河南探索 我省 ‘互联网+监管’ 系统建设走在
                   全国前列), Henan Big Data Administration, December 24, 2019. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.
triviumchina.com




                   com/search?q=cache:ZEaEV9WPUAkJ:https://dsj.henan.gov.cn/2019/12-24/1101428.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph.

                   127    Zhejiang Provincial Development and Reform Commission, Notice of the Provincial Development and Re-



                                                                          87
                   References & Notes



                   form Commission on Printing and Distributing the “Guidelines for the Evaluation of the Public Credit of Five Types




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   of Subjects in Zhejiang Province (2019 Version)” (省发展改革委关于印发《浙江省五类主体公共信用评价指
                   引(2019版)》的通知), August 9, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:xfy-
                   bUXYRQBcJ:fzggw.zj.gov.cn/art/2019/8/9/art_1599552_36655868.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   128 General Office of Zhejiang Provincial People’s Government, “Credit ‘531X’ Project” (信用“531X”工程),
                   Zhejiang Government Service Network. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:W-
                   zgACEntcLMJ:zld.zjzwfw.gov.cn/art/2020/4/10/art_1229004464_42545501.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   129 Karen Yeung, “Algorithmic Regulation: A Critical Interrogation,” TLI Think! Paper 62/2017 (May 2017).
                   https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2972505.

                   130 Karen Yeung, “Algorithmic Regulation: A Critical Interrogation,” TLI Think! Paper 62/2017 (May 2017).
                   https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2972505.

                   131 John E. Baiden, “The 5 C’s of Credit in the Lending Industry,” June 26, 2011. https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/pa-
                   pers.cfm?abstract_id=1872804.

                   132 Lin Junyue, “Credit Concepts” (信用概念) in Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理),
                   China Fangzheng Press, January December 2002, 2-24. Translation.

                   133 Credit Reference Center of the People’s Bank of China, “Explanation of the Personal Credit Report (Personal
                   Version)” (个人信用报告(个人版)解读), January 14, 2014. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:http://www.pbccrc.org.cn/zxzx/grzx/201401/dcf00b0b7b88405280dd0b7923c09fda.shtml.

                   134 World Bank Group, “The Global Findex Database 2017: Measuring Financial Inclusion and the Fintech Revolu-
                   tion”. https://globalfindex.worldbank.org/sites/globalfindex/files/chapters/2017%20Findex%20full%20report_chap-
                   ter2.pdf.

                   135 Virgilio Bisio, “China’s Banking Sector Risks and Implications for the United States,” U.S.-China Economic and
                   Security Review Commission, May 27, 2020.

                   136 Zhao Meng, “Central Bank Media: It is Difficult to Resolve the Financing Problem of Private Enterprises (
                   央行媒体：化解民企融资难须跳出’唯抵押物论’)”, Finance Daily, November 27, 2018. https://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:wp4cOFTMbfoJ:https://www.financialnews.com.cn/gc/sd/201811/
                   t20181127_150132.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   137 Legal Daily, “Analysis of the Three Major Focuses of the New Report on Social Credit” (新版个人征信
                   报告三大焦点解析), April 19, 2019. Translation. http://www.legaldaily.com.cn/locality/content/2019-04/19/con-
                   tent_7835493.htm.

                   138 CFPB Office of Research. “Data Point: Credit Invisibles,” Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, May 2015.
                   https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201505_cfpb_data-point-credit-invisibles.pdf. ; Experian, “New Experian credit
                   score may improve access to credit for more than 40 million credit invisibles,” PR Newswire, November 7, 2019.
                   https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-experian-credit-score-may-improve-access-to-credit-for-more-than-
                   40-million-credit-invisibles-300953246.html .

                   139   Record of Zhu Rongji’s Speeches Volume III (朱镕基讲话实录 第三卷), People’s Publishing House, 2011, 37.

                   140   Record of Zhu Rongji’s Speech Volume III (朱镕基讲话实录 第三卷), People’s Publishing House, 2011, 275.

                   141 People’s Bank of China and China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, 2018 China Small and
                   Micro Enterprises Financial Services Report (中国小微企业金融服务报告[2018]), China Financial Publishing
triviumchina.com




                   House, June 2019. Translation. : Scott Kennedy, “China’s Emerging Credit Rating Industry: The Official Founda-
                   tions of Private Authority,” The China Quarterly 193 (March 2008): 65-83.

                   142 “Government Work Report - Second Session of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress March 5,
                   2019 (政府工作报告—2019年3月5日在第十三届全国人民代表大会第二次会议上),” Xinhua, March 5,



                                                                            88
                   References & Notes



                   2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.xinhuanet.com/poli-




                                                                                                                                      China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   tics/2019-03/05/c_1124194454.htm.

                   143 “General Office of the CPC Central Committee, General Office of the State Council: Opinions on Promoting
                   the Healthy Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises” (中共中央办公厅 国务院办公厅印发 [关于
                   促进中小企业健康发展的指导意见]), Xinhua, April 7, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:JbajF3t4zaQJ:www.xinhuanet.com/2019-04/07/c_1124335674.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph; National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China and China Banking
                   and Insurance Regulatory Commission, NDRC and CBIRC Jointly Issue ‘Notice on Further Developing ‘Xinyi
                   Loan’ to Support the Financing of Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Micro Enterprises (国家发展改革委、银保监
                   会联合印发[关于深入开展 ‘信易贷’ 支持中小微企业融资的通知]), September 21, 2019. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AMATxedoVIcJ:www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-09/21/content_5431882.
                   htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   144 Scott Kennedy, “China’s Emerging Credit Rating Industry: The Official Foundations of Private Authority,” The
                   China Quarterly 193 (March 2008): 65-83.

                   145 Miles Livingston et al., “Are Chinese Credit Ratings Relevant? A Study of the Chinese Bond Market and
                   Credit Rating Industry,” Journal of Banking & Finance 87 (February 2018): 216-232.

                   146 Scott Kennedy, “China’s Emerging Credit Rating Industry: The Official Foundations of Private Authority,”
                   The China Quarterly 193 (March 2008): 65-83.

                   147 John E. Baiden, “The 5 C’s of Credit in the Lending Industry,” June 26, 2011. https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
                   papers.cfm?abstract_id=1872804. ; Lin Junyue, “The Credit Market and its Data Environment” (征信市场及其数
                   据环境) in Principles of the Social Credit System (社会信用体系原理), China Fangzheng Press, December 2002,
                   61-122. Translation.

                   148 Scott Kennedy, “China’s Emerging Credit Rating Industry: The Official Foundations of Private Authority,”
                   The China Quarterly 193 (March 2008): 65-83.

                   149 Xiaofei Jinrong Fengkong Lianmeng, “List of 130 National Credit Reporting Agencies (全国企业征信机
                   构备案数量130家名单 ),” Sohu, July 2, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=-
                   cache:azECeQ4A0eoJ:www.sohu.com/a/324254065_99917536+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   150 “Letter Regarding the Introduction of Third-party Credit Service Agencies to Participate in Multi-field and
                   Specific Field Industry Credit Construction and Credit Supervision” (关于引入第三方信用服务机构协同参与多
                   领域及特定领域行业信用建设和信用监管工作的函), Credit China, October 16, 2017. Translation. https://www.
                   creditchina.gov.cn/toutiaoxinwen/201710/t20171016_57942.html.

                   151 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, “Jointly Constructing the
                   Shared Credit China System - Deputy Director Lian Weijing During the Meeting of Credit Bureaus” (共建共享信
                   用中国-连维良副主任主持出席部分征信机构座谈会), May 17, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.googleuser-
                   content.com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fzggw/jgsj/cjd/sjdt/201605/t20160517_1111376.html. ; Wen
                   Yuan, “Promote the high-quality development of the enterprise credit market (推动企业征信市场高质量发展),”
                   Guang Ming Daily, August 4, 2019. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Uztjj7IS-
                   vNQJ:https://epaper.gmw.cn/gmrb/html/2019-08/04/nw.D110000gmrb_20190804_4-03.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph.

                   152 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Notice of the General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission on Promoting and Applying the
                   Comprehensive Evaluation Results of the Public Credit of Market Subjects (国家发展改革委办公厅关于推送并应
triviumchina.com




                   用市场主体公共信用综合评价结果的通知), September 1, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-09/16/content_5430181.htm.

                   153 Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development of the People’s Republic of China, “Joint Punishment
                   Records” (失信联合惩戒记录), http://jzsc.mohurd.gov.cn/since/punish.



                                                                          89
                   References & Notes



                   154 China Government Procurement Network, “List of Records of Serious, Illegal, and Untrustworthy Acts in




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Government Procurement” (政府采购严重违法失信行为记录名单). http://www.ccgp.gov.cn/search/cr/.

                   155 Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the People’s Republic of China, “National Tourism Regulatory Service
                   Platform” (全国旅游监管服务平台). http://jianguan.12301.cn/.

                   156 Supreme People’s Court of the People’s Republic of China, “China Legal Enforcement Information Disclo-
                   sure Network” (中国执行信息公开网), http://zxgk.court.gov.cn/shixin/.

                   157 China Government Procurement Network, “National Credit Information Sharing Platform Project (Phase 2)
                   (National Information Center Construction Portion) ‘Credit China’ Announcement of the Winning Bid for the Web-
                   site Upgrade and Software Customization Project” (全国信用信息共享平台项目 [二期] [国家信息中心建设部
                   分] ‘信用中国’ 网站升级改版软件定制开发项目中标公告), August 3, 2017. Translation. http://www.ccgp.gov.cn/
                   cggg/zygg/zbgg/201708/t20170803_8628900.htm.

                   158 China Government Procurement Network, “National Credit Information Sharing Platform Project (Phase 2)
                   (National Information Center Construction Portion) Announcement of the Winning Bid for the Credit China Mobile
                   Application and Service System Custom Development Project” (全国信用信息共享平台项目[二期] [国家信息中
                   心建设部分] 信用中国移动应用及服务支撑系统定制开发项目中标公告), August 12, 2019. Translation. http://
                   www.ccgp.gov.cn/cggg/zygg/zbgg/201908/t20190812_12665053.htm.

                   159 China Government Procurement Network, “National Credit Information Sharing Platform Project (Phase 2)
                   (National Information Center Construction Portion) Announcement of the Winning Bid for the Partial Software and
                   Hardware System Integration, Partial Application System Demand Analysis and Detailed Design, and Data Ex-
                   change Platform Custom Development Project” (全国信用信息共享平台项目 [二期] [国家信息中心建设部分] 部
                   分软硬件系统集成, 部分应用系统需求分析及详细设计, 数据交换平台定制开发项目建设中标公告), Novem-
                   ber 14, 2017. Translation. http://www.ccgp.gov.cn/cggg/zygg/zbgg/201711/t20171114_9161418.htm.

                   160 Xuancheng City Information Work Office, “Bidding Announcement for the Procurement Project of the
                   City and County Integrated Public Credit Information Sharing Service Platform” (市县一体化公用信用信息
                   共享服务平台采购项目招标公告), June 1, 2017. Translation. http://www.ccgp.gov.cn/cggg/dfgg/gkzb/201706/
                   t20170601_8319825.htm.

                   161 Sugon, “Won the National Information Center Bid to Help Build a National Credit Information Sharing
                   Platform” (中标国家信息中心，助力全国信用信息共享平台建设), Kuaibao, December 4, 2018. Transla-
                   tion. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:tMhpLUYlYKQJ:https://www.sugon.com/cut%-
                   3Fid%3D968%26nav_id%3D48+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   162 National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China, Explanation of the Credit
                   Information Collection Interface of the National Credit Information Sharing Platform (全国信用信息共享平台信
                   用信息归集接口说明), DOC Appendix 3, June 2019. Translation. http://www.hbcredit.gov.cn/gywm/xyml/201909/
                   P020190903352933990385.pdf.

                   163 State Administration for Industry and Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, “Creating a National
                   Network - One of the Records of the Construction of the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System” (
                   织好织密 ‘全国一张网’—国家企业信用信息公示系统建设纪实之一), March 21, 2017. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2017-03/21/content_5179369.htm.

                   164 Yichun Economic and Technical Development Zone, “Online Monitoring Platform for Pollution Sources in
                   District is Officially Put into Use” (我区污染源在线监控平台正式投入使用), January 5, 2018. Translation. http://
                   jkq.yichun.gov.cn/news-show-1176.html. ; Environmental Protection Bureau of Yichun Economic Development
                   Zone, “There is a ‘Weapon’ for Environmental Protection in the Economic Development Zone! Online Monitoring
triviumchina.com




                   Platform Officially Put into Use” (经开区环境保护有“利器”！在线监控平台正式投入使用 ), Sohu, January 3,
                   2018. Translation. https://www.sohu.com/a/214441348_664462.

                   165 Changshu High-tech Industrial Development Zone, “Changshu High-tech Zone Implements ‘No Disturbance
                   Supervision’” (常熟高新区实施“无打扰监管”), March 18, 2020. Translation. http://www.changshu.gov.cn/zgcs/



                                                                           90
                   References & Notes



                   InfoDetail/Default.aspx?infoid=106ebfee-6f3c-4436-ab76-288eae4b348c,001006007.




                                                                                                                                            China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   166 Zhang Liu, “Benefits for Enterprises with ‘One-Stop’ Service,” (惠企服务“最多点一次”), Zhejiang Daily,
                   March 2, 2020. Translation. http://zjrb.zjol.com.cn/html/2020-03/03/content_3310216.htm?div=-1.

                   167 Yongxi Chen and Anne S. Y. Cheung, “The Transparent Self Under Big Data Profiling: Privacy and Chinese
                   Legislation on the Social Credit System,” The Journal of Comparative Law 12:2 (June 2017): 356-378.

                   168 Rogier Creemers, “China’s Social Credit System: An Evolving Practice of Control,” May 2018. https://papers.
                   ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3175792.

                   169 Robert Brauneis and Ellen P. Goodman, “Algorithmic Transparency for the Smart City” Yale Journal of Law &
                   Technology, Volume 20, 2018. https://yjolt.org/sites/default/files/20_yale_j._l._tech._103.pdf.

                   170 Roger Creemers and China Law Translate trans., “State Council Notice Concerning Issuance of the Planning
                   Outline for the Establishment of a Social Credit System (2014-2020),” State Council of the People’s Republic of China,
                   April 27, 2015. https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/socialcreditsystem/.

                   171 State Administration for Market Regulation of the People’s Republic of China, “2019 Overview of the Devel-
                   opment of the National Market” (2019年全国市场主体发展基本情况), March 5, 2020. Translation. http://www.
                   samr.gov.cn/sj/tjsj/202003/t20200305_312509.html; China Organization Data Service, “Code Data”, accessed May
                   1, 2020. Translation. https://www.cods.org.cn/sjzs/dmsj.

                   172 Credit Shenyang, “National Public Credit Information Center Documents” (国家公共信用信息中心文件),
                   March 31, 2020. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:_sHEd9WhdvUJ:xysy.shen-
                   yang.gov.cn/contents/31/91120.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   173 Shanghai Public Credit Information Service Center, Operational Status Report (运行情况报告), 2019. Trans-
                   lation. http://www.creditshanghai.org.cn/resource/upload/cxw/201905/23103028syuo.pdf.

                   174 China Government Procurement Network, “Public Bidding for Constructing the Integrated Social Credit Plat-
                   form of Each City in Yunnan Province” (云南省各州市社会信用平台一体化建设项目中标公示), December 20,
                   2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:K-QSYoQRZJIJ:www.ccgp.gov.cn/cggg/
                   dfgg/zbgg/201912/t20191220_13609456.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   175 Xiamen Social Credit System Construction Leading Group Office, Notice on the Inclusion of Behaviors in
                   Credit Records and the Implementation of Credit Rewards and Punishments According to Law During the Novel
                   Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemic Prevention and Control Period (关于在新冠肺炎疫情防控期间将有关行为
                   列入信用记录依法实施信用奖惩的通知), February 17, 2020. Translation. http://www.xm.gov.cn/zxgg/202002/
                   t20200220_2423189.htm.

                   176 Li Mu, “The Use of Blacklists Should be Regulated by Unified Legislation” (黑名单的运用应统一立法予
                   以规制), Legal Daily, December 11, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:i-
                   9yoJ6txdSoJ:www.legaldaily.com.cn/commentary/content/2019-12/11/content_8071205.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph.

                   177 National Development and Reform Commission and People’s Bank of China, Guiding Opinions on Further
                   Regulating the Scope of Inclusion of Public Credit Information, Punishment for Untrustworthiness, and Credit
                   Restoration to Build a Long-term Mechanism for Credit Construction (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (关于进
                   一步规范公共信用信息纳入范围、失信惩戒和信用修复构建诚信建设长效机制的指导意见（征求意见稿）),
                   July 22, 2020. Translation. https://hd.ndrc.gov.cn/yjzx/yjzx_add.jsp?SiteId=339.

                   178 “The National Development and Reform Commission Organized a Social Credit Legislation Forum,” Interface
triviumchina.com




                   News, September 2, 2019. https://baijiahao.baidu.com/s?id=1643532806855141610.

                   179 Wikisource, “13th NPCSC Legislative Plan”. https://zh.wikisource.org/wiki/User:NPCObserver/13thNPCS-
                   CLegislativePlan.




                                                                            91
                   References & Notes



                   180 Standing Committee of Shanghai Municipal People’s Congress, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone




                                                                                                                                           China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Regulations (中国[上海]自由贸易试验区条例), 39, July 25, 2014. Translation. http://webcache.googleuser-
                   content.com/search?q=cache:aXgJVoD3Jq4J:www.shanghai.gov.cn/nw2/nw2314/nw32419/nw32510/nw32512/
                   u26aw40132.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   181 Standing Committee of Shanghai Municipal People’s Congress, Shanghai Social Credit Regulations (上海市
                   社会信用条例), July 23, 2017. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:QE0bO7hK-
                   3sEJ:www.spcsc.sh.cn/n1939/n2440/n3898/u1ai149901.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph; Shanghai Municipal
                   People’s Government, Measures of Shanghai Municipality on the Collection and Use of Public Credit Information (
                   上海市公共信用信息归集和使用管理办), December 23, 2015. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.
                   com/search?q=cache:klxtdI7jfWwJ:www.shanghai.gov.cn/nw2/nw2314/nw2319/nw12344/u26aw46212.html+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   182 Jiangsu Provincial Government, Jiangsu Province Social Credit Regulations (Draft for Comments) (江苏
                   省社会信用条例(草案) [征求意见稿]), April 28, 2020. Translation. https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/
                   search?q=cache:LR6aDvMKDxMJ:https://credit.suzhou.gov.cn/news/show/370099.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=-
                   clnk&gl=ph.

                   183 Laurie Burkitt and Colum Murphy, “China Using Antimonopoly Law to Pressure Foreign Businesses,” Wall
                   Street Journal, August 4, 2014. https://www.wsj.com/articles/china-using-antimonopoly-law-to-pressure-for-
                   eign-businesses-1407154916.

                   184 Xia Xutian, “Ministry of Commerce: 20 New Measures to Stabilize Foreign Investment are Coming Soon” (
                   商务部：20条稳外资新措施即将出台), 21st Century Business Herald, October 30, 2019. Translation. http://web-
                   cache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:vvOrsscnPN0J:www.21jingji.com/2019/10-30/2NMDEzNzlfMTUxN-
                   DY2Nw.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   185 Credit China, “Google Information Technology (China) Co., Ltd.” (谷歌信息技术(中国)有限公司).
                   https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/xinyongxinxixiangqing/xyDetail.html?searchState=1&entityType=1&key-
                   word=%E8%B0%B7%E6%AD%8C%E4%BF%A1%E6%81%AF%E6%8A%80%E6%9C%AF(%E4%B8%AD%
                   E5%9B%BD)%E6%9C%89%E9%99%90%E5%85%AC%E5%8F%B8&uuid=62a6ee4bcc209eb5f7193ef787b-
                   27b53&tyshxydm=91110108795101314G.

                   186 Credit China, “Federal Express (China) Co.,Ltd.” (联邦快递(中国)有限公司). https://
                   www.creditchina.gov.cn/xinyongxinxixiangqing/xyDetail.html?searchState=1&entityType=1&key-
                   word=%E8%81%94%E9%82%A6%E5%BF%AB%E9%80%92(%E4%B8%AD%E5%9B%BD)%E6%9
                   C%89%E9%99%90%E5%85%AC%E5%8F%B8&uuid=48d45498494d36914813e8dd9e5744af&tyshxy
                   dm=911100007109207250.

                   187 Mark Bergen, “Google in China: When ‘Don’t Be Evil’ Met the Great Firewall,” Bloomberg Businessweek,
                   November 9, 2018. https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-11-08/google-never-stopped-trying-to-go-to-
                   china. ; Jane Li, “China Says FedEx Lied about its ‘Mishandling’ of Huawei Packages,” Quartz, July 26, 2019. https://
                   qz.com/1675374/china-suspects-fedex-of-violating-laws/.

                   188 Qichacha, “Tianjin Binhai New Area State-Owned Commercial Investment Group Co., Ltd.” (天津市滨海新
                   区国有商业投资集团有限公司). https://www.qcc.com/firm/51N4KS9.shtml#susong.

                   189 Qichacha, “Sichuan Coal Industry Group Co., Ltd.” (四川省煤炭产业集团有限责任公司). https://www.qcc.
                   com/firm/2720GBO.shtml.

                   190 Qichacha, “Shenyang Hunnan Water Group Co., Ltd.” (沈阳浑南水务集团有限公司). https://www.qcc.com/
                   firm/ddd58a7eea835b885099cdb719c9e66b.html.
triviumchina.com




                   191 Qichacha, “Yinchuan Cultural Tourism Investment Group Co., Ltd.” (银川文化旅游投资集团有限公司).
                   https://www.qcc.com/firm/1b93c3a3543409ea175fd764485ea82c.html.

                   192   Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for Reporting Foreign Investment In-



                                                                             92
                   References & Notes



                   formation (Draft for Comments) (外商投资信息报告办法(征求意见稿)), November 8, 2019. Translation. http://




                                                                                                                                          China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/b/g/201911/20191102915702.
                   shtml.

                   193 Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China and the State Administration for Market Regulation
                   of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for the Reporting of Foreign Investment Information (外商投资信息报
                   告办法), December 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:e5mskC2tsAY-
                   J:www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2019-02/15/content_5365945.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   194 American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, “2020 China Business Climate Survey
                   Report,” March 2020. https://www.amchamchina.org/policy-advocacy/business-climate-survey/.

                   195 Office of the United States Trade Representative, Findings of the Investigation into China’s Acts, Policies, and
                   Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation Under Section 301 of the Trade Act
                   of 1974, March 22, 2018. https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/Section%20301%20FINAL.PDF.

                   196 Jing Zhan, “The Art of Political Ambiguity: Top-down Intergovernmental Information Asymmetry in China,”
                   Journal of Chinese Governance, 2017. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/309634977_The_Art_of_Politi-
                   cal_Ambiguity_Top-down_Intergovernmental_Information_Asymmetry_in_China.

                   197 State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Opinions of the State Council on Comprehensively Imple-
                   menting the Joint Regulation of Random Selection of Subjects and Inspectors and Public Disclosure by Departments
                   in Market Regulation (国务院关于在市场监管领域全面推行部门联合“双随机、一公开”监管的意见), Janu-
                   ary 27, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:e5mskC2tsAYJ:www.gov.cn/
                   zhengce/content/2019-02/15/content_5365945.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   198 Jeremy Daum, “China through a Glass, Darkly,” China Law Translate, December 24, 2017. https://www.
                   chinalawtranslate.com/en/china-social-credit-score.

                   199 Jeremy Daum, “China through a Glass, Darkly,” China Law Translate, December 24, 2017. https://www.
                   chinalawtranslate.com/en/china-social-credit-score.

                   200 State Administration for Market Regulation of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for the Adminis-
                   tration of the List of Serious Illegal and Dishonest Acts (Draft for Soliciting Comments) (严重违法失信名单管
                   理办法 [修订草案征求意见稿]), July 10, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=-
                   cache:http://www.moj.gov.cn/news/content/2019-07/10/zlk_3227858.html.

                   201 Ministry of Finance of the People’s Republic of China, Notice of the Ministry of Finance on the Inquiry and
                   Use of Credit Records in Government Procurement Activities (财政部关于在政府采购活动中查询及使用信用记
                   录有关问题的通知), August 1, 2016. Translation. http://www.ccgp.gov.cn/zcfg/mof/201608/t20160811_7169275.
                   htm.

                   202 General Office of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office
                   of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based
                   Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的
                   指导意见), Article 17, July 16, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://
                   www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm.

                   203 Ministry of Public Security of the People’s Republic of China, Regulation on Graded Cybersecurity Protec-
                   tions (Draft for Solicitation of Comments) (网络安全等级保护条例（征求意见稿), June 27, 2018. Translation.
                   https://www.mps.gov.cn/n2254536/n4904355/c6159136/content.html.

                   204 Yongxi Chen and Anne S. Y. Cheung, “The Transparent Self Under Big Data Profiling: Privacy and Chinese
triviumchina.com




                   Legislation on the Social Credit System,” The Journal of Comparative Law 12:2 (June 2017): 356-378.

                   205 Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China and the State Administration for Market Regulation
                   of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for Reporting Foreign Investment Information (外商投资信息报告办



                                                                           93
                   References & Notes



                   法), December 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:v8dXX4JUx2wJ:w-




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   ww.fdi.gov.cn/1800000121_23_75233_0_7.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   206 Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China and the State Administration for Market Regulation
                   of the People’s Republic of China, Measures for Reporting Foreign Investment Information (外商投资信息报告办
                   法), December 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:v8dXX4JUx2wJ:w-
                   ww.fdi.gov.cn/1800000121_23_75233_0_7.html+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   207 Suzhou Development and Reform Commission, Implementation Plan to Accelerate the Construction of the
                   Kunshan Social Credit System and Build a New Regulatory Mechanism Based on Credit (关于加快推进昆山社会
                   信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的实施方案), April 9, 2020. Translation. https://www.suzhou.
                   gov.cn/szsshyhtxjs/xgzx/202004/34bc0b1bdbcf4c2caf7530e512789169.shtml; General Office of the State Council
                   of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Accelerating the
                   Construction of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based Supervisory Mechanism (国务院办公厅
                   关于加快推进社会信用体系建设构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的指导意见), July 16, 2019. Translation.
                   http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2019-07/16/con-
                   tent_5410120.htm.

                   208 General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China,
                   Notice on Further Improving the “Credit China” Website and Local Credit Portal Website Mechanisms for Credit
                   Repair of Information on Administrative Punishments (国家发展改革委办公厅关于进一步完善“信用中国”网站
                   及地方信用门户网站行政处罚信息信用修复机制的通知), April 30, 2019. Translation. http://webcache.googleus-
                   ercontent.com/search?q=cache:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/201905/t20190514_962445.html.

                   209 Cyberspace Administration of China, Measures on Credit Administration for Seriously Untrustworthy
                   Internet Information Services Entities (互联网信息服务严重失信主体信用信息管理办法), July 22, 2019.
                   Translation. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:QwklsNMO8dcJ:www.cac.gov.cn/2019-
                   07/22/c_1124782573.htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   210 Tara Francis Chan, “It Looks Like China is Extending its Black Mirror-like ‘Social Credit System’ to Over-
                   seas Companies,” Business Insider, July 3, 2018. https://www.businessinsider.com/china-social-credit-system-con-
                   trolling-foreign-companies-2018-6.

                   211 Jeremy Daum, “Credible Threat? Taiwan, Websites, and Social Credit,” China Law Translate, June 30, 2018.
                   https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/credible-threat-taiwan-websites-and-social-credit/.

                   212 Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, Memorandum of Cooperation on Joint Punish-
                   ment of Seriously Untrustworthy Entities in the Field of Foreign Economic Cooperation (关于对对外经济合作领
                   域严重失信主体开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录), October 31, 2017. Translation. https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fggz/lywz-
                   jw/zcfg/201711/t20171128_1047046.html.

                   213 Jonathan E. Hillman, “Corruption Flows Along China’s Belt and Road,” Center for Strategic and Internation-
                   al Studies, January 18, 2019. https://www.csis.org/analysis/corruption-flows-along-chinas-belt-and-road.

                   214 Pu Xiaolei, “Important! ‘Export Control Law Draft’ submitted for deliberation! Proposed to include military
                   products, nuclear, etc. into controlled items” (重磅！《出口管制法草案》提请审议！拟将军品、核等纳入管制
                   物项), Chain News, December 24, 2019. Translation. https://www.chainnews.com/articles/400810253071.htm.

                   215 Trey McArver, “China’s Failing Fight Against Overcapacity,” Trusted Sources, January 22, 2016.

                   216 Credit China, “National Urban Credit Status Monitoring Platform” (全国城市信用状况监测平台), https://
                   creditcity.creditchina.gov.cn/Index.aspx.
triviumchina.com




                   217 Xin Dai, “Toward a Reputation State: The Social Credit System Project of China,” (June 2018). https://doi.
                   org/10.2139/ssrn.3193577.

                   218 Yuval Harari, Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow, Harvill Secker, September 2016, 369.



                                                                           94
                   References & Notes



                   219 David Freeman Engstrom et al., “Government by Algorithm: Artificial Intelligence in Federal Administrative




                                                                                                                                        China’s Corporate Social Credit System - Context, Competition, Technology and Geopolitics
                   Agencies,” Administrative Conference of the United States (February 2020). https://law.stanford.edu/wp-content/
                   uploads/2020/02/ACUS-AI-Report.pdf.

                   220 “What Drives Legitimacy in Government?” Centre for Public Impact, September 26, 2017. https://resources.
                   centreforpublicimpact.org/production/2017/07/What-drives-legitimacy-in-government1.pdf; Bruce Gilley, “The
                   Determinants of State Legitimacy: Results for 72 Countries,” International Political Science Review 27:1 (January
                   2006): 47-71.

                   221 Richard McGregor, “Xi Jinping’s Ideological Ambitions,” Wall Street Journal, March 1, 2018. https://www.
                   wsj.com/articles/xi-jinpings-ideological-ambitions-1519950245.

                   222 Xin Dai, “Toward a Reputation State: The Social Credit System Project of China,” June 10, 2018. https://doi.
                   org/10.2139/ssrn.3193577.

                   223 Wu Weihai and Zhang Shaoli, Credit of Great Powers: The Global Vision of China’s Social Credit System (大
                   国信用 全球视野的中国社会信用体系), China Planning Press, January 2017. Translation.

                   224 Wu Weihai and Zhang Shaoli, Chapter 14, Credit of Great Powers: The Global Vision of China’s Social Credit
                   System (大国信用 全球视野的中国社会信用体系), China Planning Press, January 2017, 379-401. Translation.

                   225 Huang Ying, “Opportunities and Challenges of Establishing China’s Leading Credit Rating Agency” (建立
                   我国主导信用评级机构的机遇与挑战), China Economic and Social Council, July 18, 2018. Translation. http://
                   webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:CVAp6TkLQToJ:www.china-esc.org.cn/c/2018-07-18/2115894.
                   shtml+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   226 Daniel Cash, “The Universal Credit Rating Group: Measuring Debt Ethically,” World Economics, November
                   13, 2016, 67-74. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/317304903_The_Universal_Credit_Rating_Group_Rat-
                   ing_Debt_Ethically.

                   227 Gao Pan and Jiang Yujuan, “Lou Jiwei: International Rating Agencies are Biased Against the Chinese Econ-
                   omy” (楼继伟：国际评级机构对中国经济存在偏见), Xinhua, April 16, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:jGQkhxE0Z98J:news.xinhuanet.com/world/2016-04/16/c_1118641709.
                   htm+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph. ; Li Xuanmin, “Global Rating Agency’s Politically Biased Decision ‘Harms
                   Itself,” Global Times, September 8, 2019. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:70sMO6KPEZs-
                   J:www.globaltimes.cn/content/1163998.shtml+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph. ; Risk Management Institute, “An
                   Improved Regulatory Framework for Credit Rating Agencies?” Global Credit Review Volume 2 (2013): 31.

                   228 Samantha Hoffman, “Social Credit,” Australian Strategic Policy Institute, June 2018. https://www.aspi.org.au/
                   report/social-credit.

                   229 Shirley Yam, “How Chinese Corporates Owe a Debt to Ratings Agencies,” South China Morning Post, Octo-
                   ber 25, 2012. https://www.scmp.com/business/banking-finance/article/1068900/ratings-agencies-china-russia-and-
                   us-take-big-three.

                   230 “Repeatedly Receiving ‘Bad Reviews’ How can Emerging Market Countries Break the ‘Rating Barrier’?” (
                   屡获“差评” 新兴市场国家如何打破“评级藩篱”?), China News, July 19, 2016. Translation. http://webcache.
                   googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Fwx54Khm5a4J:www.chinanews.com/cj/2016/07-19/7945041.shtml+&c-
                   d=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ph.

                   231 Elizabeth C. Economy, written testimony for U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Hear-
                   ing on a “China Model,” March 13, 2020, 1-9.
triviumchina.com




                   232 Yuka Kobayashi, “China’s Creative Compliance in the WTO,” in: Ka Zeng and Wei Liang (eds.), China and
                   Global Trade Governance: China’s First Decade in the World Trade Organization,” Routledge, 103-125; China
                   Power, “How influential is China in the World Trade Organization?” July 31, 2019. https://chinapower.csis.org/chi-
                   na-world-trade-organization-wto/.



                                                                           95
