2025/12/21 1:09                              China’s Private Sector Credit Information Services: The Baihang Story | by Wansun Credit | Medium




      China’s Private Sector Credit Information
      Services: The Baihang Story
      2 min read · Jul 17, 2018

                  Wansun Credit



                  Listen                Share



      Three years after eight commercial firms were granted permission by the People’s
      Bank of China (PBOC) to start their pilot programmes in operating personal credit
      information systems in 2015, none of them have received a license.

      Instead, they have now become shareholders and active contributors to a new
      unified platform that has access to an enormous number of personal credit data. At
      the so-called ‘trust alliance’ (                   信联) Baihang Credit (百行征信), state level and
      commercial organizations join forces in further developing China’s credit systems.

      Baihang & Allies: An Abundance of Personal Data The formal launch of Baihang
      Credit (      百行征信), the “first unified personal credit information firm” of China, has
      become big news in Chinese media, with some calling it a personal credit industry
      game changer. Baihang Credit is a joint venture of the aforementioned eight and the
      China Internet Finance Association.

      It received its license in February of this year. The firm officially opened for
      business on May 23rd of 2018. While the China Internet Finance association
      reportedly holds 36% of the Baihang firm, the other eight shareholders each hold
      8% (Zhang & Liu 2018). The eight companies are not just financial investors, but
      also active contributors and sharers of technology, resources, and data for the
      Baihang firm.

      The launch of this joint establishment means that both state-level institutions and
      commercial enterprises combine their efforts in building a strong personal credit

https://medium.com/@wansun.credit/chinas-private-sector-credit-information-services-the-baihang-story-c50cbfc3bba0                               1/3
2025/12/21 1:09                              China’s Private Sector Credit Information Services: The Baihang Story | by Wansun Credit | Medium

      investigation and services platform. Fhe new system now links data collected by
      these powerful firms such as Tencent to the state-level China Internet Finance
      Association, which in itself is an initiative by the People’s Bank of China. Besides
      basic data including personal information, education level, salaries or employer,
      companies such as Sesame Credit or Tencent also have access to a rich collection of
      consumer data, ranging from social media, e-commerce purchases, online travel
      data, to location, phone records and even social connections.

      The eight firms will also play an important role in Baihang’s management. Sesame
      Credit, Tencent Credit, Qianhai Credit, Sinoway and Koala Credit have all entered
      the company’s board of directors. The other three companies will join the board of
      supervisors (Sina Finance 2018). The 57-year-old Zhu Huanqi (                                                  朱焕启) will be
      Baihang’s CEO and president; he previously worked at Huida Asset Management.
      The PBOC told Caixin Global that all parts of the eight companies that previously
      dealt with personal credit ratings will now be incorporated into Baihang. The other
      parts can continue to operate as data service providers. In the future, Sesame
      Credit, for example, will continue to research commercial credit services.

          China




      Open in app                                                                                                                   Sign up      Sign in


                                               Search
      Written by Wansun Credit
      0 followers · 7 following




      No responses yet




https://medium.com/@wansun.credit/chinas-private-sector-credit-information-services-the-baihang-story-c50cbfc3bba0                                         2/3
2025/12/21 1:09                              China’s Private Sector Credit Information Services: The Baihang Story | by Wansun Credit | Medium




https://medium.com/@wansun.credit/chinas-private-sector-credit-information-services-the-baihang-story-c50cbfc3bba0                               3/3
