2025/12/21 1:11                                                               China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                                                              Local Knowledge


                                                                           China Social Credit System Explained – What is it & How Does it
                                                                           Work?


                                                                                       AUTHOR                                              PUBLISHED           LAST UPDATE

                                                                                       Drew Donnelly, PhD                                  February 11, 2024   December 6, 2024




                                      The China social credit system is a broad regulatory framework intended to
                                      report on the ‘trustworthiness’ of individuals, corporations, and governmental
                                      entities across China. In this introduction, we explain how the China social
                                      credit system works in 2024, how it differs from financial credit ratings
                                      elsewhere, and how it impacts individuals and companies operating within
                                      China.




                                      Key Takeaways
                                      1. The goal of the China social credit system is to provide a holistic
                                           assessment of an individual’s or a company’s trustworthiness.

                                      2. The China social credit system, while still in development, is arguably an
                                           extension of existing social rankings and ratings in China which have
                                           existed for millennia.

                                      3. The consequences of a poor social credit score could be serious. It may
                                           affect travel prospects, employment, access to finance, and the ability to
                                           enter into contracts. On the other hand, a positive credit score could
                                           make a range of business transactions much easier.

                                      4. It is essential that any foreign business consolidating or establishing their
                                           presence in China seek professional advice for managing a social credit
                                           score. This applies both to individual scores, and the corporate social
                                           credit score.




                                      2024 marks an era of stability in the development of China’s social credit
                                      system.

                                      By 2022 an estimated 80 percent of provinces, regions and cities had
                                      introduced some version of the system, but now that appears to have slowed
                                      down significantly.
https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                                                    1/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      One part of the social credit system, the ‘corporate social credit rating,’
                                      appears to be especialy advanced: More than 33 million businesses in China
                                      have already been given a score under some version of the corporate social
                                      credit system.

                                      So, what is the China social credit system? If commentary in the Western
                                      media is anything to go by, it is a somewhat mysterious and scary rating
                                      system.

                                      In 2018, former US Vice-President, Mike Pence, sounded the alarm bells about
                                      China’s social credit system, stating “China’s rulers aim to implement an
                                      Orwellian system premised on controlling virtually every facet of human life –
                                      the so-called “social credit score.”

                                      Western media outlets have spoken of the “sinister social credit system” and a
                                      system of “total control”.

                                      Is there any truth to such rhetoric, and what does all this mean for businesses
                                      expanding into China?

                                      In this article, we break down the Chinese social credit system, as it has been
                                      developed to date, and aim to separate the myth from reality.




                                      What is China's Social Credit
                                      System?
                                      The term ‘social credit’ (   社会信用体 in Chinese and shèhuì xìnyòng tǐxì in pinyin)
                                      doesn’t have a precise meaning — rather, it is an intentionally broad and
                                      vague term allowing for maximal policy flexibility.

                                      Plugged into a regulatory framework, the ‘China social credit system’ (also
                                      knows as ‘China’s Ranking System’) refers to a diverse network of initiatives
                                      aimed at enhancing the amount of ‘trust’ within Chinese society.

                                      The goal of the social credit system is to make it easier for people and
                                      businesses to make fully-informed business decisions. A high social credit score
                                      will be an indicator that a party can be trusted in a business context.

                                      The system began with a focus on financial creditworthiness, similar to credit
                                      scores used in western countries, and moved on to include compliance and
                                      legal violations.

                                      The eventual ‘end-state’ of the system is a unified record for people,
                                      businesses, and the government, which can be monitored in real-time.

                                      In more recent years, policy development for the social credit system has
                                      moved beyond considerations of financial creditworthiness and compliance to
                                      encompass a broader notion of ‘trust’.

                                      A common theme in the policy documents establishing the social credit
                                      system is the term ‘Chengxin‘, variously translated as ‘trustworthiness’,
                                      ‘honesty’, ‘integrity’, ‘sincerity’ or ‘morality’, depending on the context.

                                      More specifically, through facilitating trust, the China social credit system
                                      supports the following goals¹:




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              2/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]



                                                     Hiring in China – Employee Recruitment Guide & Process




                                      Financial creditworthiness (zhengxin                                                       徵信)
                                      As in most countries, firms and individuals need a way of assessing whether
                                      others are a safe bet for lending/extending goods on credit. The social credit
                                      system aims to rectify this gap in China’s financial and business ecosystem.


                                      Judicial enforcement (gongsi gongxin                                                           司法
                                      公信  )
                                      Enforcement of judicial decisions (such as judgement debts) has proven
                                      particularly difficult in China. Part of the purpose of the social credit system is
                                      to find new enforcement mechanisms for existing laws and court decisions.


                                      Commercial trustworthiness (shangwu
                                      chengxin         )         商务诚信
                                      This means improving compliance and anti-fraud mechanisms for commercial
                                      enterprises, and those who participate in them.


                                      Societal trustworthiness (shehui chengxin                                                             社
                                      会诚信   )
                                      This covers the broader goal in the social credit system of supporting a more
                                      ‘moral’ society. We see this goal at work in social credit initiatives which value
                                      honesty, hard work and devotion to family.


                                      Government integrity (zhengwu chengxin                                                                政
                                      务诚信  )
                                      The social credit system is ‘self-reflective’: Bureaucrats and politicians
                                      themselves will be subject to the regime, with the goal of reducing corruption.

                                      The high-level goals are to be achieved via three key practical mechanisms:



                                      Data gathering and sharing
                                      The fundamental building block of the social credit system is data. Through
                                      the system, data is gathered by central, regional and municipal government
                                      bodies, as well as private actors, and shared. ‘Big data’ algorithms are then
                                      used to process that data in a meaningful manner.


                                      Curation of blacklists and redlists
                                      The data acquired is used to add individuals and corporations to lists (some
                                      public, some not).
https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                  3/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                             China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      Punishments, sanctions and rewards
                                      Based partially (but not entirely) on presence in the lists identified above,
                                      individuals are punished and rewarded.

                                      The elements of the social credit system outlined above are put into place by a
                                      variety of actors:



                                      Policy direction
                                      The social credit system is, at the highest level, driven by the State Council,
                                      currently chaired by Premier Li Keqiang. This is the most powerful
                                      administrative body within the Chinese government. It is assisted in this task
                                      by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC). This is a
                                      macroeconomic policy body, immediately subordinate to the State Council,
                                      and has a mixture of what would in other countries be called Treasury and
                                      Reserve/Central Bank Powers. The People’s Bank of China (PBoC) also plays a
                                      prominent role at the highest policy level.


                                      Central government and court
                                      implementation
                                      Dozens of central government departments and agencies have implemented
                                      elements of the social credit system, especially the blacklists and redlists.
                                      Prominent examples include the Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Culture and
                                      Tourism and the PBoC.

                                      The Supreme People’s Court has also introduced an expansive blacklist of
                                      debtors under the scheme.


                                      Regional and municipal government
                                      implementation
                                      It is through regional pilots that the social credit system has largely been
                                      implemented, including the ‘model cities’ initiative introduced in 2017 (see
                                      timeline below).


                                      Private company credit ratings and
                                      contracting
                                      Several private companies have developed their own credit systems (such as
                                      Alibaba’s affiliated ‘Sesame Credit’), with participation being voluntary. Some
                                      of these have been developed independently, while others have been
                                      developed as part of government trials.

                                      In other cases, private companies have been contracted to provide the
                                      infrastructure supporting the credit system such as Baidu’s refresh of the
                                      ‘Credit China’ webportal, and Tencent’s development support for the app.



                                      History and Background of
                                      the Chinese Social Credit
                                      System
                                      While the introduction of a unified China social credit system was formally
                                      announced in 2014, precursors to the proposed social credit system have
                                      operated within China for centuries — arguably millennia. The idea, or

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                           4/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                         China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      philosophy, behind social credit, might be traced back to the ‘warring states’
                                      period of Chinese history. At that time, various schools of thought competed
                                      for dominance:



                                      Confucianism
                                      Confucius (551–479 BCE) advocated a ‘holistic’ conception of human nature
                                      where individual well-being was connected to good character, and the proper
                                      functioning of society as a whole.


                                      Mohism
                                      Mozi (470 BC–391 BCE) suggested that all humans should care for each other
                                      equally, and advocated a society where all were treated impartially.


                                      Legalism
                                      This school, (approximately 400-300 BC), emphasized the importance of laws,
                                      strictly enforced from above, in order to preserve social order.

                                      Though arguably ‘legalism’ won out, all three of these schools influenced the
                                      first imperial ‘Qin’ dynasty (221-206 BC). It is within this dynasty that a
                                      meritocratic assessment and promotion system was applied across the
                                      imperial bureaucracy in order to achieve a well-functioning Chinese state.
                                      Arguably, this was a rudimentary ‘social credit system’, albeit one applied only
                                      to civil servants, and without a precise ‘score’.

                                      In the 20th century, public record systems have been developed to record the
                                      behavior and actions of ordinary individuals. For example, the hukou system, in
                                      place in its modern incarnation since 1958, registers households, controls
                                      internal movement within China, and assigns benefits to households
                                      depending on their rural or urban location.

                                      The dàng’àn                档案 is a set of records related to an individual within China,
                                      recording that individual’s “performance and attitudes”. This file contains a
                                      range of information such as physical characteristics, photographs,
                                      employment records, academic records, workplace appraisals, convictions and
                                      administrative penalties. This file follows an individual for life, and two copies
                                      are held: One is kept by the Public Security Bureau and the other by the
                                      individual’s work unit.

                                      This file has been used (and still is) for a range of decisions affecting an
                                      individual, such as promotions and access to passports.

                                      A key proposed benefit of the new unified social credit system is that, instead
                                      of relying on a paper record to manage society, the electronically-integrated
                                      system would expedite the analysis process and make oversight easier.



                                      Timeline of the Development
                                      of the China Social Credit
                                      System
                                      In 1978-1979, the reforms of Deng Xiaoping opened up the Chinese economy in
                                      various key ways, including the “Open Door” policy that permitted foreign
                                      investment in China once more. From that point on the lack of traditional
                                      credit rating systems, as well as significant corruption scandals, have been
                                      seen as a limitation on economic prosperity.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                       5/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                             China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      By contrast, developed western economies like the United States already had
                                      computerized credit analysis by the 1960s (though scoring systems, such as the
                                      FICO, did not rise to prominence until the late 1980s).

                                      We set out the development timeline for the social credit system below:



                                      Mid-1990s — First credit databases
                                      constructed
                                      The PBoC developed an early database providing financial credit information
                                      to commercial banks.

                                      This was formalized in the ‘Banking Credit Registration and Reference System’
                                      (sometimes translated as ‘Bank Credit Registry and Consulting System’),
                                      established in 1997.


                                      1999 — The idea surfaces
                                      Then Premier Zhu Rongji assigned a research team at the Institute of World
                                      Economics and Politics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences to investigate
                                      solutions to corrupt market behavior. In response, The National Credit
                                      Management System² is released, advocating a centralized system, bringing
                                      together data from across China.

                                      The focus of the system at this stage was economic: Debt default, contractual
                                      breach, and regulatory non-compliance were to be the key data for the
                                      system.

                                      From this point on, embryonic pilot testing of the system began. For example,
                                      in 2000, Shanghai introduced a credit system which assessed eligibility for
                                      loans by individuals based on payment of utility bills.³


                                      2004 — Official endorsement from the
                                      leadership
                                      Then President, Jiang Zemin, endorsed the social credit system at the 16th
                                      CPC party congress in his report ‘Build a Well-off Society in an All-Round Way
                                      and Create a New Situation in Building Socialism with Chinese Characteristics’.

                                      The stated goal was to establish a social credit system compatible with a
                                      modern market system.

                                      In addition, trials on a consumer credit reporting database began with 23
                                      state-owned and commercial banks across seven municipalities.


                                      2006 — Credit Reference Centre
                                      established
                                      The Credit Reference Centre was created to be a nation-wide, independent,
                                      credit reporting agency.

                                      Banks were required to start reporting on customer creditworthiness. Through
                                      collaboration with government departments and the Supreme People’s Court,
                                      additional information relevant for creditworthiness began to be reported.


                                      2007 — Co-ordinated national policy
                                      development
                                      The Joint Inter-ministerial Conference on Social Credit System Construction
                                      (the ‘joint conference’) was set up to co-ordinate the development of the
                                      system.


https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                           6/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                              China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      Participants include key government departments and agencies such as the
                                      Ministry of Finance, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, and
                                      the Ministry of Public Security.

                                      But members were also included from the Central Commission for Discipline
                                      Inspection (the chief anti-corruption body in China), the Central Guidance
                                      Commission on Building Spiritual Civilization (the chief ideological body in
                                      China, aimed at a “socialist harmonious society”), and the Supreme People’s
                                      Court.

                                      This wide membership beyond traditional government departments is perhaps
                                      indicative of the all-encompassing nature of the planned social credit system
                                      (and the move from a focus on financial creditworthiness, to broader
                                      conceptions of ‘trust’).


                                      2009 — Regional pilots of the social credit
                                      system commence
                                      One of the most well-cited cases was the system introduced in Suining county,
                                      Jiangsu province. Individuals were given 1000 points, with the ability to gain or
                                      lose points based on their behavior. Convictions or debt non-repayment, for
                                      example, meant point deductions.

                                      These points were then used to create a letter grade from A to D. And the
                                      result of those letter grades affected employment opportunities, access to
                                      business licenses, and eligibility for government support.              ⁴
                                      A more recent example is the ‘Social Credit Card’, introduced in Nanjing in
                                      2016. This offers select benefits to individuals with a high social credit score,
                                      including discounts and preferential treatment by financial institutions.
                                      Assessment criteria include such considerations as the individual’s willingness
                                      to donate blood, and whether the individual is recognized as a hard worker.


                                      2013 — Supreme People's Court debtor
                                      blacklist established
                                      This list publishes the names and ID numbers of defaulters.

                                      As well as the ‘shame’ associated with being on the list, defaulters were
                                      prevented from a range of ‘high-end’ expenditure, including traveling and
                                      staying in certain hotels.

                                      Notably, it applies to both individuals and the legal representatives and
                                      officers of companies in default.

                                      In 2017, it was estimated that 8.8 million debtors had been added to this list.


                                      2014 — Release of key planning and co-
                                      ordination document
                                      The State Council released ‘Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social
                                      Credit System (2014-2020)’ in 2014.

                                      This document is a culmination of the work of the joint conference, and has
                                      guided the social credit system in its development over the past six years.

                                      Five objectives for the system listed in that document included establishing
                                      necessary laws and regulations for social credit, the completion of a credit
                                      investigation and sharing system for all of China, developing credit supervision
                                      systems, a market for credit services, and establishing mechanisms for keeping
                                      trust and punishing those who fail to do so.

                                      A significant emphasis with this last objective was the development of
                                      blacklists and redlists (these are discussed in detail below).
https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                            7/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                              China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      2015 — National Credit Information
                                      Sharing Platform (NCISP) and private
                                      provider trial
                                      The NCISP is overseen by the NDRC in conjunction with dozens of other
                                      government departments. It integrates all the regulatory data used to
                                      construct blacklists and redlists.

                                      It is this database that the Unified Social Credit Code uses to pick out a
                                      particular corporate actor.

                                      Also in 2015, the PBoC authorized a trial for 8 companies to test numerical
                                      credit score systems, based on repayment, purchase history and personal
                                      characteristics. The most well-known was Alibaba-affiliated ‘Sesame Credit’.
                                      These licenses were not renewed, and instead, the 8 companies received a
                                      stake in a unified credit platform named Baihang, with a significant stake
                                      controlled by the PBoC.    ⁵
                                      2016 — Progression on blacklists and
                                      redlists
                                      2016 saw the State Council emphasize the standardization of blacklists and
                                      redlists (see ‘Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving the Joint
                                      Incentive System for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary System for
                                      Untrustworthiness’);

                                      From this point, blacklists and redlists became ubiquitous across government
                                      departments, with more than 50 in operation.


                                      2017-2018 — Model city trials
                                      Widespread adoption of regional trials of the social credit system, with 12 such
                                      cities in 2017 being classified as ‘model cities’. Perhaps the most prominent
                                      example city is Rongchen. The city introduced a comprehensive grading and
                                      reward and punishment system. The platform involves collaboration between
                                      142 government departments. Hundreds of positive and negative factors go
                                      into the final score, with positive scoring individuals having priority access for
                                      finance and licenses.

                                      In Suzhuo, a collaboration between the city government and Ant Financial
                                      with the ‘Osmanthus‘ score was applied to 13 million residents. High scores
                                      meant (among other things), public transport and library benefits.                      ⁶
                                      2019 — Towards AI
                                      The State Council released ‘Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Construction
                                      of a Social Credit System and Building a New Credit-based Supervisory
                                      Mechanism’. This emphasized the need for big data and artificial intelligence
                                      to provide early warning of risky actors in need of extra regulatory attention. It
                                      also recognized the need to focus on market regulation.

                                      At the same time, the document called for improved credit repair mechanisms,
                                      enhanced data collection and privacy protections.


                                      2020 — Covid-19 implications and further
                                      standardization
                                      In December 2020, a draft of the Social Credit Law was released for internal
                                      consultation. There is speculation that the eventual law may look like existing
                                      provincial social credit regulations that have been implemented, such as

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                            8/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                        China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      Shanghai’s.

                                      Covid-19 also saw the China social credit system altered in various ways to
                                      recognize the impact of the pandemic. This is discussed in detail below.



                                      How Does China's Social
                                      Credit System Work?
                                      The China social credit system rates individuals based on the aggregation and
                                      analysis of data. In some trials, this has involved a single numerical score
                                      (usually between 1 and 1000, like a FICO score), or a letter grade (usually
                                      from A-D).

                                      This information is acquired from a range of sources including individual
                                      businesses (including ‘big tech’) and government entities. Some of the
                                      information is ‘siloed’, and accessible only by the individual regional or central
                                      government authority. But in many cases, the information is shared with other
                                      regulators through a centralized database, such as NCISP.

                                      For example, some of the factors that can be considered in giving a corporate
                                      social credit rating include:

                                             Whether the business has paid taxes on time
                                             Whether the business maintains necessary licenses
                                             Whether the business fulfills environmental-protection requirements
                                             Whether the business meets product quality standards
                                             Whether the business meets requirements specific to their industry.

                                      It is important to note that businesses’ scores may decrease based on the
                                      behavior of their partners. This means enterprises need to think very carefully
                                      about who they do business with in China.




                                                                 China Social Credit System Implementation Schedule




                                      Punishments in China's Social
                                      Credit System
                                      As the China social credit system is still in a state of evolution, it is impossible
                                      to say with certainty what exactly the negative consequences are. That said,
                                      based on those elements that are currently in place, as well as existing
                                      regional pilots, potential negative effects of a bad score once fully
                                      implemented include:




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                      9/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      Travel bans
                                      Reports in 2019 indicated that 23 million people have been blacklisted from
                                      travelling by plane or train due to low social credit ratings maintained through
                                      China’s National Public Credit Information Center. It is reasonable to assume
                                      that this will continue as part of China’s social credit system.


                                      School bans
                                      The social credit score may prevent students from attending certain
                                      universities or schools if their parents have a poor social credit rating. For
                                      example, in 2018 a student was denied entry to University due to their father’s
                                      presence on a debtor blacklist.


                                      Reduced employment prospects
                                      Employers will be able to consult blacklists when making their employment
                                      decisions. In addition, it is possible that some positions, such as government
                                      jobs, will be restricted to individuals who meet a certain social credit rating.


                                      Increased scrutiny
                                      Businesses with poor scores may be subject to more audits or government
                                      inspections.


                                      Public shaming
                                      In many cases, regulators have encouraged the ‘naming and shaming’ of
                                      individuals presented on blacklists. In addition, flow-on effects may make it
                                      difficult for businesses with low scores to build relationships with local partners
                                      who can be negatively impacted by their partnership.

                                      In addition, businesses of individuals need to consider the negative effects that
                                      the actions of a person or business can create for others due to a poor social
                                      credit score.

                                      For example, engaging with companies that have a low social credit score
                                      (such as those that are ‘blacklisted’) can reduce one’s own social credit score.
                                      In addition, if an individual with a poor social credit rating opens a business,
                                      the business may automatically begin with a low social credit score.

                                      The majority of megacities and mid-sized cities in China have already
                                      implemented a trial period of the social credit system. There are many ways to
                                      lose points and lower one’s social credit score, depending on the city where
                                      the offense takes place. Some of the more trivial score-lowering actions
                                      include:

                                             An individual not visiting their parents on a frequent basis
                                             Jaywalking
                                             Walking a dog without putting it on a leash
                                             Smoking in a non-smoking zone
                                             Cheating in online videogames

                                      Some have questioned whether some of these activities and behaviors are
                                      bad enough to merit the penalties that result from a low social credit score.

                                      It should be noted that the court system is available for individual’s or
                                      corporations to appeal their score.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              10/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      Blacklists and Redlists in the
                                      Chinese Social Credit System
                                      So far we have made several references to the ‘blacklists’ and ‘redlists’
                                      associated with the China social credit system. So what exactly is a blacklist?

                                      China currently has a number of national and regional blacklists based on
                                      various types of violations. It is expected that over time, the system of
                                      blacklists will be fully integrated with the social credit score.

                                      Businesses can be placed on a blacklist due to a particular violation or
                                      because of a poor social credit score. A government notice released in 2016
                                      encourages businesses to consult the blacklist before they hire someone or
                                      assign them a contract.

                                      Please note that companies will not be blacklisted automatically for
                                      compliance failures. The corporate social credit system also maintains an
                                      irregularity list. This list deals with significant (but not yet ‘blacklist’ level), non-
                                      compliance.

                                      Presence on this list means the business is in danger of being blacklisted and
                                      should quickly take steps to improve its reputation.

                                      The Chinese government utilizes the blacklist in multiple ways. The list itself is
                                      frequently being analyzed, with the available information on both its citizens
                                      and companies listed in their Master Database working as a template for
                                      assigning each person a score.

                                      While the China Blacklisting system is still in its early stages, it is already the
                                      most prominent system of its kind worldwide. China has already put this
                                      system into action, and has barred thousands of Chinese residents’ rights to
                                      buy plane tickets and travel either domestically or abroad. However, most of
                                      the blacklisting that has occurred to date has been as a result of violations or
                                      misbehavior of companies and the individuals working for them.

                                      In its current iteration, the blacklisting system is highly complex. Instead of
                                      having a single blacklist used by the federal government, there are currently
                                      hundreds of blacklists being controlled by various state agencies around
                                      China. Every agency has its own jurisdiction in which it operates, giving these
                                      localized organizations the ability to blacklist individual citizens and
                                      companies that operate within their area of authority.

                                      It’s important to note that being blacklisted under one agency’s jurisdiction
                                      may leave the affected party subject to blacklisting from the remaining
                                      agencies across the country (the level of integration of blacklists differs across
                                      the country and between different government departments).

                                      It typically takes 2 to 5 years to be successfully removed from a blacklist, which
                                      often has a negative impact on the privileges afforded to those individuals
                                      and businesses in society. Early removal from the list is a possibility for some,
                                      depending on the severity of the offense and whether the offending party has
                                      done enough to rectify the situation in the eyes of the relevant governing body.

                                      In addition to being used as a metric for punishing citizens and companies for
                                      violating the country’s guidelines, the social credit system is also intended to
                                      be useful in China’s search for signs of potentially harmful behavior before it
                                      occurs.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              11/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      Rewards in China's Social
                                      Credit System
                                      On the other end of the spectrum, there are positives of the social credit
                                      system for people and corporations who are determined to be outstanding
                                      members of Chinese society. In this context, the opposite of being blacklisted
                                      is to be ‘redlisted’ (also spelt ‘red-listed’). Redlisting allows citizens and
                                      companies access to certain privileges that will impact their day-to-day lives.

                                      There are a range of rewards for businesses that do well in this regard,
                                      including:
                                             Streamlined administrative procedures. For example, companies that
                                             are classified as an ‘Advanced Certificate Enterprise’ may receive faster
                                             customs clearance. ‘A-rated’ tax-payers may have their tax returns
                                             processed more quickly
                                             Fewer inspections and audits
                                             Fast-tracked approvals.




                                      How is Technology Integrated
                                      within the Social Credit Score
                                      System?
                                      New innovations in technology are poised to play a large role in the country’s
                                      social credit system. Artificial Intelligence (AI) facial recognition software is
                                      said to be currently utilized in tandem with over 200 million surveillance
                                      cameras in China.

                                      Some argue that the purpose of large-scale surveillance measures is to give
                                      Chinese officials the ability to track their citizens in every facet of everyday life:
                                      In turn providing masses of data to determine whether an act worthy of being
                                      blacklisted has occurred.

                                      Along with these physical surveillance measures, the Chinese government
                                      continues to track the online behaviors of its citizens. There are a plethora of
                                      violations Chinese officials may be looking for, including evidence of writing
                                      and sharing anti-government ideologies.

                                      The AI software is able to do the majority of this work on behalf of the
                                      government and alert officials when a violation has occurred. The technology
                                      has advanced to a place where the AI can identify videos of anti-government
                                      protests and block users from viewing them.

                                      Businesses must be cautious when navigating China’s compliance laws as
                                      well, as their internet data may be used against them in the event of a
                                      violation. Data that reveals a company’s lack of compliance in regards to
                                      contractual obligations are factored into and can play a significant role in
                                      determining the company’s social credit score.

                                      It is worth noting that, generally speaking, China’s public security system and
                                      social credit system are distinct. Currently, blacklists and redlists are created
                                      via the manual inputs of officials and there is not yet any full-scale integration
                                      between the state’s security apparatus and the social credit system.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              12/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                 China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      What is China's Corporate
                                      Social Credit System?
                                      While the social credit system in China is universal in application, the policy
                                      focus to date has been on its application to companies. According to one
                                      analysis, 73 percent of policy documents released to date have been focused
                                      on the application of social credit in the corporate sector.

                                      The goal of the corporate social credit rating is to combine data from many
                                      different sources to provide a public searchable database of companies, and
                                      to evaluate and score those companies against a list of compliance criteria.

                                      While the corporate social credit rating is still in a development phase, the
                                      goal is to work towards a ‘Comprehensive Public Credit Rating’, which will
                                      provide an overall score for companies operating in China.

                                      In the meantime, companies need to use a range of existing databases
                                      providing information and evaluations of companies, based on overlapping,
                                      yet distinct datasets. The databases can be national, regional, local, and
                                      based on particular industries.

                                      Businesses are assessed based on compliance, financial and audit records:
                                      More than 33 million businesses in China have been assessed to date.

                                      Important concepts in the corporate social credit system include:

                                             Grades and ratings. Scores are currently in the development phase
                                             (these will be similar to the three-digit credit scores you may already
                                             be familiar with in other countries). However, there are four basic letter
                                             categories used: A= Excellent; B=Good; C=Average; D=Not sufficient;
                                             Redlist/Redlisting. As discussed earlier, this is a mechanism to reward
                                             companies that are performing well;
                                             Irregularity list. This lists companies with significant non-compliance. If
                                             a company is on this list, the authorities are paying attention to it;
                                             Blacklisting. Blacklisted companies are classified as heavily distrusted.
                                             This categorization can result in your business license being revoked;
                                             Unified Social Credit Code. This is your company’s unique business
                                             identifier across the different databases.

                                      Below we look at how to check your status using a key national database,
                                      CreditChina.



                                      How to Check Your
                                      Company's Corporate Social
                                      Credit Score using
                                      CreditChina
                                      CreditChina is a search tool (only available from a Chinese IP Address),
                                      providing a range of information on companies and individuals. Information
                                      incorporated into its assessments includes:
                                             Basic identifying information for the company, including the
                                             company’s Unified Social Credit Code and permits held;
                                             Any applicable administrative penalties;
                                             Any payment defaults recognized by the Courts;
                                             Any instances of tax evasion and fraud;

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                               13/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                         China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                             Instances of illegal importing or exporting;
                                             Unpaid wages




                                                                                     Credit China
                                      There are several sub-databases provided, including one relating to redlisted
                                      companies, one for blacklisted companies, and one for companies with
                                      irregularities.

                                      To proceed with checking your rating or score in CreditChina go to the
                                      CreditChina homepage as shown below:

                                      Then, take the following steps:

                                      Click on the ‘Credit’ tab (first item in the list)
                                      Search for the company either by name, or by Unified Social Credit Code;




                                                                 Insert the Unified Social Credit Code and hit 'Search'
                                      The record that you see, will show:

                                             Any administrative permits held by the company;
                                             Any administrative penalties applied to the company;
                                             The presence of the company on redlists;
                                             The presence of the company on blacklists;
                                             The presence of the company on any irregularity list.

                                      If you find ‘negative entries’ (presence on a blacklist or irregularity list), you
                                      should seek advice on how to improve your situation. Or, if you think there has
                                      been an error, you can make a complaint seeking directly to the authorities
                                      seeking a correction of your record.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                       14/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      How to Check the Status or
                                      Rating of your Company
                                      Using Other Databases
                                      NECIPS is another national database, arguably not as user-friendly as
                                      CreditChina. It has the most comprehensive set of information on social credit
                                      system records, as it collects data from the most government sources. In
                                      addition, NECIPS:

                                             Provides more comprehensive identification data relating to the
                                             company;
                                             Allows for reporting on social credit system issues directly to the
                                             authorities.

                                      Companies should also check local databases in the areas where they are
                                      located, as well as any subject matter-specific databases. These databases
                                      include:
                                             The tax database that lists when companies have excellent tax-filing
                                             and payment practices;
                                             The environmental regulatory database;
                                             A customs database;
                                             A procurement database.




                                      Why Is the Corporate Social
                                      Credit System Important For
                                      Your Company?
                                      The corporate social credit system is important for two reasons. First, you need
                                      to know who you are doing business with in China. The corporate social credit
                                      rating lets you look up potential business partners and collaborators and
                                      check their reliability. Second, understanding the corporate social credit
                                      system is essential for your own business. In order for other companies and the
                                      government to be willing to engage with you, you need to continually
                                      demonstrate that you are a compliant entity.

                                      Looking up your corporate credit rating on the available databases is essential
                                      in order to check that you are on track. We recommend that you seek
                                      professional advice and assistance to ensure that your company can increase
                                      its ‘positive’ credit entries and decrease the number of ‘negative’ entries.



                                      What Is the Difference
                                      Between Alibaba-Affiliated
                                      'Sesame Credit' and the
                                      China Social Credit Rating?
                                      The China social credit system is often confused with existing credit ratings
                                      provided by private credit providers. It is commonly likened to Sesame (Zhima)
                                      Credit, which is operated by Alibaba’s Ant Financial.

                                      Note, Sesame Credit has no connection to ‘Credit Sesame’, a US-based credit
                                      and loan company.
https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              15/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                  China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      Whilst Alibaba was involved in constructing infrastructure mechanisms for the
                                      social credit system (Alongside other Chinese ‘big tech’ firms such as Tencent
                                      and Baihe), Sesame Credit is an optional platform. It exists for the use of
                                      Alibaba group customers. Rewards include streamlined access to loans from
                                      Ant Financial, and an enhanced profile for operating on other Alibaba Group
                                      sites. It is distinguished also by its use for individuals, as opposed to businesses.

                                      The Sesame Credit model takes into account a range of information including
                                      the individual’s payment history and debt, their ability to fulfill contractual
                                      obligations, and their personal characteristics. In this respect, Sesame Credit
                                      works in a similar way to some credit systems in the United States. For
                                      example, while the most common form of credit score in the US, the FICO
                                      score, does not take into account personal characteristics, lenders often take
                                      those factors into account when implementing those scores.




                                      How to Prepare for the
                                      Implementation of China's
                                      Social Credit Points System?
                                      While some valid concerns have been expressed about the trials of the social
                                      credit system so far, the potential benefits for foreign companies looking to
                                      extend or establish their operations in China cannot be underestimated. If it
                                      works as intended, the social credit system will mean:

                                             A leveled playing field against domestic companies. Through publicly
                                             accessible databases, foreign companies will be able to know that they
                                             are doing business with a reliable partner. This is especially important
                                             for enterprises when they first enter the China market. To date, this
                                             information was primarily known by local Chinese companies ‘in the
                                             know’;
                                             Standardized credit ratings across China. Foreign companies will be
                                             able to have confidence that a rating given to a company in Shanghai
                                             will be based on the same factors as a credit rating given in Shenzhen.

                                      In preparation for the implementation of the China social credit system, it is
                                      imperative that businesses both foreign and domestic understand which
                                      information they need to provide to authorities. Once this information is
                                      identified, businesses should conduct an internal audit which will allow full
                                      compliance with the necessary regulations.

                                      In addition to these measures, businesses should prepare a supply chain audit
                                      and confirm that any business partners meet social credit guidelines.

                                      Businesses should also analyze their IT and data security, as the transmission
                                      of this data to government bodies will need to be undertaken.

                                      While not mandatory, businesses should assess whether their operations are
                                      conducive to the advancement of government policies. This can include
                                      measures of corporate social responsibility that align with government
                                      priorities and wider policy initiatives.



                                      What Is the Public Perception
                                      of the Social Credit System?
                                      As the social credit system is relatively new and unfamiliar to individuals and
                                      businesses from other countries, it may seem ‘scary’. However, a significant
                                      degree of reporting in English-language media has been based on linguistic

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                16/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      confusions and policy proposals that have not yet been implemented. For
                                      example, businesses do not currently get penalized for ‘frivolous spending’, as
                                      has been widely reported.

                                      As an example, see the reporting from NBC in 2019 below.


                                                     A Look Inside China’s Social Credit System | NBC News Now




                                      In many respects, a credit score in the United States, for example, can have
                                      just as serious consequences for individuals and businesses, as China’s social
                                      credit system: For example, access to transport can be seriously curtailed in
                                      the US due to a poor credit rating through higher insurance premiums and
                                      limited access to car loans.

                                      In 2017, CNBC looked at the similarities between the China social credit system
                                      and FICO scores in the US. One commentator quoted there, Forrest Zhang,
                                      Professor of Sociology and Singapore Management University, commented:
                                      “From what has been outlined in the official sources, there is nothing more
                                      intrusive than what is commonly done in the West”.

                                      Although there has been substantial resistance to the social credit system from
                                      a global perspective, it appears that most Chinese citizens approve of the
                                      system. In addition, those most familiar with the social credit system and how
                                      it is being implemented, citizens and businesses in China, are widely supportive
                                      of the system.

                                      In one peer-reviewed study, 80% of respondents either somewhat approved
                                      or strongly approved of social credit scores. Just 1% of participants reported
                                      either strong or some degree of disapproval in the system.

                                      While not all studies have shown such a high level of support for the system
                                      within China, all show a broad degree of support. See, for example, the study
                                      below.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              17/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                       China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                                   What do people in China think about ‘social credit system’ monitoring?
                                      It is important to note that this survey only represents Chinese internet users
                                      that participated in the survey and is not necessarily a representation of how
                                      the country feels as a whole.




                                                                                      “
                                           From what has been outlined in the official sources, there is nothing more
                                                                 intrusive than what is commonly done in the West.

                                              Forrest Zhang, Professor of Sociology, Singapore Management University




                                      Are There Overseas
                                      Equivalents to the Social
                                      Credit System?
                                      As noted above, it has been suggested that the social credit system is not so
                                      different from forms of citizen evaluation in other countries, such as the United
                                      States. Is this true? Below we consider some of the wide-scale ‘trust’ and big
                                      data programs in other countries, and consider how they compare with
                                      elements of the China social credit system:


                                      Australia
                                      One of Australia’s biggest immigrant groups are New Zealanders, who are
                                      entitled to live and work in Australia for life under the terms of a ‘special
                                      category visa’, usually awarded on arrival. This visa has a ‘good character’ test
                                      which has been used to deport those resident in Australia for decades, entirely
                                      at the discretion of officials. In a recent case, this was used to detain and


https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                     18/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                             China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                      deport a 15-year-old child. Arguably, this has some similarities with the way
                                      the China social credit system can affect freedom of movement based on anti-
                                      social behavior.

                                      The ‘ParentsNext’ welfare program provides payments for single mothers. To
                                      qualify, recipients must verify every week that they have undertaken certain
                                      activities with their children, such as attending swimming lessons or going to
                                      the library. This has some similarities with the capability of the China social
                                      credit system to penalize and reward individuals for private family activities.

                                      Trustbond is a private Australian company which uses social media data to
                                      come up with a ‘trust score’. This can in turn can be used to replace traditional
                                      cash bond payments for potential renters. This has some some similarities with
                                      the way in which trials of the social credit system have used social media data
                                      to improve overall scores.

                                      The city council in the city of Darwin trialled technology recording people’s
                                      movements from cellphone data within the city centre. When a ‘ping’ is
                                      received at the control centre, surveillance cameras can identify the individual
                                      and Police can be notified. This has similarities with the camera surveillance
                                      aspects of the China social credit system.


                                      Germany
                                      Germany’s expansive credit rating system has a significant impact on
                                      individual liberties. The ‘SCHUFA’ score (similar in some ways to the ‘FICO’
                                      score in the United States) is necessary for renting or buying a house in
                                      Germany, borrowing, or receiving goods on credit. While the details of the
                                      score are kept secret in the interests of commercial secrecy, it has been
                                      claimed that being in a low-income area or having low-score neighbors could
                                      negatively affect your score.

                                      It is clear that there are analogies here with the way in which the China social
                                      credit system can punish perceived ‘anti-social’ behaviors. Some would argue
                                      that the German system leaves these scores even more opaque, by allowing
                                      these decisions to be made entirely by private companies.

                                      Similarly, some health insurance providers (health insurance is compulsory in
                                      Germany), use fitness data through apps to offer reduced insurance premiums.
                                      This has similarities with the way in which the China social credit score
                                      prioritizes, and gives a higher score to, pro-social behaviors.


                                      India
                                      India’s unique identification program known as ‘Aadhaar’, provides each
                                      resident with a 12-digit number and records their demographic and biometric
                                      data, including fingerprints and iris scans. The program began in 2009 as a
                                      voluntary system, but now covers 99 percent of the population.

                                      Its original purpose was to ensure access to welfare programs, but concerns
                                      have been raised about its use by law enforcement, as well as illegal access for
                                      commercial purposes. This has some similarities with the mass gathering of
                                      surveillance data in some trials of the China social credit system.

                                      As is evident from the examples given above, many elements of the China
                                      social credit score are already implemented in other countries.

                                      What is distinct about China’s system is its sheer size and breadth, as well as
                                      an overall Government strategy and direction around the collection and use of
                                      big data.




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                           19/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                 China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                      Progress on the China Social
                                      Credit System in 2020-2024
                                      2020 was the original target year for implementation of the China social credit
                                      system. However, a range of factors, including the impact of Covid-19, delayed
                                      the full establishment of the system.

                                      Throughout the course of 2020, there were four significant variations to the
                                      social credit system in response to the pandemic. Note, these changes were
                                      not applied nationally, but regionally and by municipal governments,
                                      depending on how they were impacted by the Pandemic. These included:



                                      1. Exemptions from Penalties
                                      Individuals or corporations that could show that breaches of contractual or tax
                                      obligations were due to Covid-19, were made exempt from the penalties for
                                      doing so.


                                      2. Social Credit Rewards for Entities
                                      Contributing to Containment of Covid-19
                                      Companies which could demonstrate a ‘decisive’ contribution to the fight
                                      against Covid-19 (such as those donating medical supplies) were eligible for
                                      certain rewards. This included inclusion on a ‘green list’ which streamlines
                                      administrative issues for that business.


                                      3. Penalties for Companies Exploiting the
                                      Pandemic or Breaking Restrictions
                                      Any businesses that could be demonstrated to have exploited the pandemic
                                      (such as engaging in price-gouging of essential materials), or the breaching of
                                      Quarantine and other Coronavirus restrictions, were penalized.


                                      4. Simplified Loan-Granting Procedures
                                      In certain cases, individuals or entities in industries heavily impacted by Covid-
                                      19 had simplified and speedier access to credit.

                                      January 2021 saw the NDRC release a national guiding document for credit
                                      information reporting. This is designed to encourage the standardization of
                                      credit information reporting between provinces.

                                      In addition, the latest 5-year ‘Plan on Building the Rule of Law in China (2020–
                                      2025)‘ sets out a vision for the connection between technology and law, as well
                                      as an intention to progress social credit legislation. As of mid-2021, this
                                      legislation is still in draft form, being considered by government departments.

                                      In July 2021, two draft documents were released in relation to the social credit
                                      system: The National Social Credit Information Basic Catalog and the
                                      National Basic List of Punishment Measures for Untrustworthiness.

                                      This includes a list of the information that is to be collected as part of the
                                      system, covering information related to:

                                             Registration;
                                             Judicial decisions and arbitration;
                                             Administrative determinations;
                                             Professional titles and qualifications;

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                               20/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]

                                             Abnormal business activities;
                                             Being on the list of “seriously untrustworthy subjects”;
                                             Contractual performance;
                                             Credit commitments and their fulfillment;
                                             Credit evaluation results;
                                             Honesty and trustworthiness;
                                             Credit information from market entities.

                                      On March 29 2022, a new policy document was released, suggesting a shift in
                                      emphasis towards social wellbeing and environmental issues for the social
                                      credit system. Opinions on Promoting the Construction of a Social Credit
                                      System with High-Quality Development and Promoting the Formation of a
                                      New Development Pattern proposes:
                                          Mechanisms to improve consumer trust, such as a product traceability
                                          system, and stopping the production of counterfeit goods
                                             Supporting labor rights by penalizing fraud in social insurance benefits,
                                             and affordable housing entitlements
                                             Credit for complying with environmental protections and soil and
                                             water conservation.

                                      As of 2024, there still seems to be little progress on rolling out a nationwide social
                                      credit score. Reportedly, all of the private social credit ratings have been shut down,
                                      and most of the local government pilots have now ended.               ⁷
                                      It appears that the most progress has been made with the corporate social credit
                                      score (as accessed via the ‘Credit China’ website). This gives a fairly comprehensive
                                      picture of regulatory compliance across government departments.



                                      China Social Credit System
                                      — Our Take
                                      The China social credit system so far, is a collection of disparate rating
                                      systems, largely administered by central and local government agencies. While
                                      a comprehensive individual ‘social credit score’ was originally envisaged, so far
                                      such a score has only been rolled out on a corporate level.

                                      So far, it appears as though the Chinese Government is slowing down on its
                                      intention to roll out a full system, and is more focused on its application to
                                      corporate compliance.

                                      By working with a local expert like Horizons, you can identify the type of
                                      information that you will need to provide to authorities, receive an internal
                                      audit to ensure compliance and access due diligence on potential business
                                      partners.




                                           Frequently Asked Questions

                                                   Does the social credit system apply to foreign
                                                   companies?




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                              21/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                         China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]




                                                   What is the difference between a social credit
                                                   score and a social credit rating?


                                                   Does the social credit system unfairly
                                                   advantage domestic companies?


                                                   Is the China social credit system reminiscent
                                                   of the Black Mirror episode 'Nosedive'?


                                                   Is the China social credit system fully
                                                   automated?


                                                   What does a person's social credit score
                                                   depend on?


                                                    Does the US have a social credit score?


                                          Does the China social credit score apply to
                                          foreigners?
                                    Related insights

                                                   Does China's social credit system have
                                                   anything in common with the economic
                                                   theory/philosophy called 'social credit'?


                                                   What is the difference between the China
                                                   social credit system and the China social
                                                   security system?


                                              How do I build or increase my social credit
                                              score?
                                        Inside Horizons                        Remote Work

                                    Horizons Wins More Than a Dozen         Remote Work Trends 2025:
                                    AwardsHow   do ISpring
                                            in G2’s repair my social
                                                           2025 Grid®credit Productivity,
                                                                            score?        Post-COVID Evo
                                    Reports                                 and Future Work Statistics

                                                   What is 'Skynet' and is it connected to the
                                                   social credit system?


                                                    What is the impact of a tax rating?

https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                       22/23
2025/12/21 1:11                                                                         China Social Credit System Explained - How It Works [2025]



                                      Recruit, hire and pay remote teams with
                                      Endnotes
                                      Horizons
                                      ¹ For an in-depth discussion of the concepts underlying China social credit see
                                                                            Book atrustworthiness:
                                      Zhang, Chenchen (2020). “Governing (through) demo            technologies of
                                      power and subjectification in China’s social credit system. Critical Asian
                                      Studies. See also Blomberg, Marianne von (2020). The Social Credit System
                                      and China’s Rule of Law. 10.1007/978-3-658-29653-7_6.
                                        180+
                                      ² Yu Jingming, Lin Junyue, Sun Jie (2000). National Credit Management
                                                                                                           100+
                                      System. Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press.
                                       Countries                                     Currencies
                                      ³ Innovation Centre Denmark, Shanghai. (2018). ‘Social credit & big data trends


                                      ⁴ 24x5                                             130+
                                      IN CHINA’.

                                        For an extensive discussion of the Suining trial see Mac Sithigh, Daithi and
                                      Siems, Mathias. (2019). ‘The Chinese Social Credit
                                       Support                                        HR System:
                                                                                          ExpertsA Model for Other
                                      Countries?’. EUI Department of Law Research Paper No. 2019/01, Available at
                                      SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=331008.

                                      ⁵ For further discussion see Mo Chen and Jens Grossklags (2020). ‘An Analysis
                                      of the Current State of the Consumer Credit Reporting System in China‘.
                                      Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies. (4):89–110.
                                           Book a demo
                                      ⁶ For an in-depth discussion of the Rongchen and Suzhou trials see Innovation
                                      Centre Denmark, Shanghai. (2018). ‘Social credit & big data trends IN CHINA’.

                                      ⁷Brussee, Vincent (2023). Social Credit: The Warring States of China’s Emerging
                                      Data Empire. Singapore: Palgrave MacMillan.




                                    Follow us




                                    Our Platform

                                    About Horizons

                                    Resources

                                    Compare us with




                                                        Horizons © 2025 – Privacy Imprint & Terms Third-Party Processor GDPR Policy Trust Center




https://joinhorizons.com/china-social-credit-system-explained/                                                                                       23/23
