2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




    Living Abroad Life In China

    China's social credit system for individuals and businesses
                      Lily Li
                      02.02.24 (updated more than 1 year ago) Read time 5 minutes


      China provides numerous opportunities for foreigners with skills and talents looking for
      jobs, as well as for any foreign individuals or organizations to establish a business in
      China. To work in China, it is advised you have a comprehensive understanding of
      China's social credit system. How does it work? What are the penalties and rewards in
      the so-called Chinese social credit system? How does the system impact expats in
      China?
      Here’s a helpful guide to the social credit system in China. What’s more, Wise, an
      international money transfer provider is introduced for individuals and companies to
      send money out of China. You can also create a Wise multi-currency account to
      receive, convert, and hold different currencies conveniently and affordably.



https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        1/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




                                                   Send money home using Wise today


          Table of contents

                   What is China's social credit system?
                   How does China’s social credit system work for individuals?
                        How to check your social credit report in China?
                        What happens if you're blacklisted?
                   Are foreigners in China impacted by the social credit system?
                   How does China’s corporate social credit system impact my business?
                        Rewards in China’s corporate social credit system⁴
                        Penalties in China’s Corporate Social Credit system⁴
                   Wise: a cheap and hassle-free way to transfer your earnings out of China!


      What is China's social credit system?
      Unveiled in a State Council plan from 2014, China's social credit system (SCS or SoCS
      Chinese name: 社会信用体系) is an important part of China’s socialist market economic
      system and social governance system. It is based on laws, regulations, standards and
      contracts, and covers a network of credit records and credit infrastructure for members
      of society¹.
      Key areas of focus in the construction of China's social credit system include political
      integrity, business integrity, social integrity and judicial credibility.
      The system also establishes a mechanism of rewards and penalties, with the aim of
      improving the sense of integrity and creditworthiness of Chinese society as a whole.
      How does China’s social credit system work for Sign up
      individuals?
https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        2/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

      China’s credit system establishes a mechanism for sharing personal credit information
      through the collection, collation, preservation and processing of individuals' basic
      information, credit information, and other information reflecting their credit status. The
      types of personal information handled by the credit collection system mainly include
      basic personal information, credit transaction information and public information².
      Adverse information in a personal credit report is retained for five years from the date of
      termination of the adverse behaviour or event.² Positive information is an individual's
      credit asset and is always displayed on the credit report.
      At present, there are three versions of personal credit reports，suiting the proposes of
      three different institutions or individuals:²
           1. The credit-granting institution version, which is provided for use by credit-granting
              institutions such as commercial banks, insurance companies and securities firms to
              meet their credit business risk management needs.
           2. The personal or individual version, which is provided to individuals for their right to
              know their own credit information and to carry out their social and economic
              activities.
           3. The state institution version, which is provided to state organs and judicial
              departments for the purpose of performing their duties in accordance with the law
              or for judicial investigations.
      How to check your social credit report in China?
      There are three ways to enquire about your social credit report²:
           1. Go to the branch of the People's Bank of China in your city and make an inquiry
              through manual service counters or self-service enquiry machines, with your
              original ID card.
           2. Log on to the official website of the Credit Reference Centre, and visit the
              personal credit information service platform for enquiry.
           3. Enquire through online banking, mobile phone APP and self-service ATMs or bank
              teller machines of commercial banks such as ICBC, CCB and China Merchants
              Bank. Individuals are entitled to obtain their credit reports twice a year free of
              charge.
      What happens if you're blacklisted?
      Fact: The Credit Reference Center of People's Bank of China merely keeps records. They
      do not assess personal credit. However, the personal credit record includes details
https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        3/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

      regarding past-due or overdue payments as well as loan and credit card repayments
      over a predetermined length of time³.
      The so-called “blacklist" usually refers to a bank's record of late payments or defaults on
      an individual's credit report, which can directly affect an individual's ability to obtain a
      loan from a bank, among other things. This is essentially the same as credit rating in the
      west.
      Are foreigners in China impacted by the social credit
      system?
      As we previously stated, those who come to work in China on visas from other countries
      should pay attention to China's social credit system, as government agencies and credit
      granting organizations, including commercial banks, may look at your credit report.
      Like Chinese citizens, foreign nationals can also check their personal credit reports at a
      local branch of the People's Bank of China, from the Credit Reference Centre, or online
      via an authorized commercial bank.
      If you are a foreign company operating in China, your business will be registered as a
      tax-paying entity and get a corporate social credit score.
      How does China’s corporate social credit system
      impact my business?
      Tax authorities will collect a wide range of indicators to score and evaluate the credit
      level of taxpaying entities - individuals and businesses and upgrade or downgrade them
      according to actual measured changes.
      Corporate tax credit scores are divided into four levels on a percentage basis, with
      grades A, B, C and D for scores of 90 or more, 70 to 90, 40 to 70 and less than 40,
      respectively. Grade D can also be determined by direct judgement on the basis of tax
      offences, e.g., evasion of tax payment, evasion of tax arrears recovery, providing false
      declaration materials to enjoy tax incentives, etc⁴.
      Rewards in China’s corporate social credit system⁴
https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        4/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

      For grade A credit taxpayers, the tax authorities will take the initiative to announce the
      list for commendation, increase the amount of special invoices and ordinary invoices on
      demand.
      Enterprises that have been awarded grade A credit for three consecutive years will be
      given a green channel or specialized personnel to assist in tax matters.
      Penalties in China’s Corporate Social Credit system⁴
      Taxpayers rated as grade B credit are subject to normal management, while grade C
      credit taxpayers are subject to strict management.
      If it is determined to be a grade D tax credit, the enterprise will be subject to strict audit
      and supervision in the use of invoices, export tax refund audits, and tax assessment,
      and the penalty for violation of the law will be higher than that of other taxpaying
      organizations.
      The tax authorities will also notify the relevant departments of their list and recommend
      that they be restricted or prohibited from doing business, investment, financing, and so
      on.
      In addition, enterprises with major tax offenses such as tax evasion, tax fraud, and tax
      on false invoices exceeding a certain amount will be included in the “blacklist”.
      The ‘blacklisted’ enterprises will not only have their names, taxpayer identification
      numbers, organizational codes, registered addresses, the main facts of the violations,
      the legal basis for the penalties, the administrative treatment, and the administrative
      penalties imposed, but also the names, genders, and identification numbers of the legal
      representatives and the financial staff of the enterprises, as well as the information of
      intermediary institutions and practitioners who are directly responsible for the major tax
      violation cases will be made public as well.
      Wise: A cheap and hassle-free way to transfer your
      earnings out of China!


https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        5/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




      When working or doing business in China, you will likely want to transfer earnings out of
      China -- in which case you can use Wise without going to a traditional physical bank.
      Founded in 2011, Wise is competent and efficient in international money transfers and
      helping over 16 million users to send money to 160+ countries, including China -- while
      reducing operating time and mitigating risk. Wise not only simplifies your transaction
      process but ensures low fees by adopting the mid-market exchange rate.
      Wise also provides money receiving, currency holding and converting service in China,
      and allows you to get 9 currency account details including AUD, CAD, EUR, GBP, HUF,
      NZD, SGD, TRY and USD. Open a Wise account today to quickly and easily send money
      abroad from China online! Wise also has a very convenient English app which you can
      download from either Apple store or Google Play.
      With Wise app, you can check exchange rate changes over time and set up alerts when
      the exchange rate reaches a certain point that fits your interest. You can also set up
      repeat payments, this function is perfect if you have some transfers that need to be paid
      regularly, such as paying your landlord etc.
      *This service is provided in partnership with a licensed third party payment provider in
      China.



https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        6/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                          China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

      You send exactly
          1,000                                                                                                                USD
         6.11 USD                                                                                                    Wire transfer fee
         11.69 USD                                                                                                               Our fee
       – 17.80 USD                                                                                                             Total fees
       = 982.20 USD                                                                                           Total amount we’ll convert
       × 7.0411                                                                                                  Guaranteed rate (48h)
      Recipient gets
          6,915.72                                                                                                             CNY
                                                     Send money home now using Wise



      Source：
        1. China Government Website: State Council on the Issuance of the Social Credit System
           Construction Outline of the Plan (2014-2020)
        2. Credit Reference Centre of the Peoples’ Bank of China: Introduction to Personal Credit Report
        3. Credit Reference Centre of the Peoples’ Bank of China: Personal Credit Report
        4. China Government Website: General Administration of Taxation promotes the construction of
           social credit system with rewards and punishments

      *Please see terms of use and product availability for your region or visit Wise fees and pricing for
      the most up to date pricing and fee information.
      This publication is provided for general information purposes and does not constitute legal, tax or
      other professional advice from Wise Payments Limited or its subsidiaries and its affiliates, and it is
      not intended as a substitute for obtaining advice from a financial advisor or any other professional.



https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                                      7/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

      We make no representations, warranties or guarantees, whether expressed or implied, that the
      content in the publication is accurate, complete or up to date.




                        Money without borders
                                                               Find out more




https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        8/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




      Living Abroad
      Tmall vs Taobao: Is Tmall and Taobao the same?
      Explore the differences between Taobao vs Tmall, two popular e-commerce platforms.
      This guide helps expats in China choose the best site for their needs.

                       Hoi Yi Leung
                       24.09.25 Read time 8 minutes




https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        9/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise


      Living Abroad
      1688 vs Taobao: What is the difference between Taobao and 1688?

                       Hoi Yi Leung
                       24.09.25 Read time 6 minutes




      Living Abroad
      Temu vs Taobao: Are they the same? Which one is better?

                       Hoi Yi Leung
                       07.08.25 Read time 6 minutes




https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        10/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




      Living Abroad
      AliExpress vs Taobao: Are they the same? Which one is better?

                       Hoi Yi Leung
                       07.08.25 Read time 6 minutes




      Living Abroad
https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        11/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise



      How to order from Taobao: A step-by-step guide to buy from Taobao
      With our guide on how to buy from Taobao, you can easily find items you want and buy
      them, and find out if you can buy from Taobao directly as a foreigner.

                       Lily Li
                       02.02.24 Read time 6 minutes




      Living Abroad
      Taobao in English: How to change Taobao to English? A complete
      guide for expats

                       Lily Li
                       02.02.24 Read time 3 minutes


                                   Tips, news and updates for your location

https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        12/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        13/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                          China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise




                                                             Company and team
                                                             Company and team
                                                                News and blog
                                                                     Press
                                                                    Careers
                                                         Affiliates and partnerships
                                                               Help and support
                                                                 Help centre
                                                               Mid-market rate
                                                                    Pricing
                                                               Learn more
                                                           Send money abroad
                                                             Swift/BIC codes
                                                           Currency converter
                                                              IBAN codes
                                                               Rate alerts
                                                         Compare exchange rates
                                                           Business templates
                                                                     Follow us



                                                                    Legal
                                                                Privacy policy
                                                               Country site map

                                       © Wise Payments Limited 2025
       Wise is the trading name of TransferWise, which is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority
       under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011, Firm Reference 900507, for the issuing of electronic
https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                         14/15
2025/12/20 17:16                                         China's social credit system for individuals and businesses - Wise

                                                                      money.




https://wise.com/en-cn/blog/china-social-credit-system                                                                        15/15
