Debtors in China are placed on a blacklist that prohibits them from
flying, buying train tickets, and staying at luxury hotels
Tara Francis Chan
Updated December 20, 2017




China luxury car

Kevin Frayer/Getty Images
 China lists the names and personal details of 8.8 million debt defaulters on a public
 website.
 Those defaulters can't fly or use high-speed trains, book fancy hotels or enroll their
 children at expensive schools.
 Naming and shaming is growing across the country, with automatic messages playing
 on mobile phones and the names and photos of defaulters being promoted on screens
 in buses and public lifts.


China maintains a public blacklist of debtors that effectively restricts their movements and
their spending habits.
The country's highest court publishes the names and ID numbers of "dishonest people" on its
website and restricts those people from flying domestically, using high-speed trains, or
enrolling their children at expensive private schools.
Defaulters are also prevented from staying at hotels with three-stars or more. They also face
tougher exams if they want to join the civil service, and are charged higher fees for booking
cars. The bans work by linking to a person's ID number. Some people used their passport
when travelling to circumvent the ban, but that loophole now appears to be closed.
The site was created by the Supreme People’s Court in an attempt to make people comply
with verdicts to repay their debts. Restrictions are placed on "high-expenditure consumption"
and "consumption not necessary to sustain normal life or businesses" for individual
defaulters as well as the legal representatives and CEOs of companies that default.
The list launched in late 2013 with 31,259 names and within two weeks it had been visited
180,000 times.
Since then, 8.8 million debtors have been added to the list.Together, they have been
prevented from flying 8.7 million times and denied 3.4 million high-speed train tickets.
Earlier this year one defaulter was fined $15,000 for travelling on a first-class flight while
another underwent plastic surgery to try and evade detection by authorities.
The blacklist also limits defaulter's job prospects. Several major employers first check the
creditworthiness of job applicants and more than 170,000 people on the list have been
denied executive positions.
"It is hoped that by imposing such inconveniences on their daily lives, debtors will be
encouraged to pay back the money they owe in a timely manner," the court said in its
statement earlier this year.
Provinces are using people's own phones to shame them
Phone Sichuan

Kevin Frayer/Getty Images
In August, a court in the southwest Sichuan Province began leaving recorded messages on
the phones of 20 debtors.
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard




The Andersons, Inc.'s (NASDAQ:ANDE) Stock Has Seen Strong
Momentum: Does That Call For Deeper Study Of Its Financial
Prospects?
Simply Wall St
December 2, 2025 • 3 min read

In this article:
  ANDE -1.73%
Andersons' (NASDAQ:ANDE) stock is up by a considerable 28% over the past three months.
We wonder if and what role the company's financials play in that price change as a company's
long-term fundamentals usually dictate market outcomes. Particularly, we will be paying
attention to Andersons' ROE today.
Return on equity or ROE is a key measure used to assess how efficiently a company's
management is utilizing the company's capital. Put another way, it reveals the company's
success at turning shareholder investments into profits.
We've found 21 US stocks that are forecast to pay a dividend yield of over 6% next year. See
the full list for free.
How Is ROE Calculated?
ROE can be calculated by using the formula:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for Andersons is:
8.4% = US$102m ÷ US$1.2b (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2025).
The 'return' refers to a company's earnings over the last year. So, this means that for every $1
of its shareholder's investments, the company generates a profit of $0.08.
See our latest analysis for Andersons
What Is The Relationship Between ROE And Earnings Growth?
So far, we've learned that ROE is a measure of a company's profitability. Depending on how
much of these profits the company reinvests or "retains", and how effectively it does so, we
are then able to assess a company’s earnings growth potential. Assuming all else is equal,
companies that have both a higher return on equity and higher profit retention are usually the
ones that have a higher growth rate when compared to companies that don't have the same
features.
Andersons' Earnings Growth And 8.4% ROE
On the face of it, Andersons' ROE is not much to talk about. We then compared the
company's ROE to the broader industry and were disappointed to see that the ROE is lower
than the industry average of 15%. However, the moderate 13% net income growth seen by
Andersons over the past five years is definitely a positive. So, the growth in the company's
earnings could probably have been caused by other variables. For instance, the company has
a low payout ratio or is being managed efficiently.
We then performed a comparison between Andersons' net income growth with the industry,
which revealed that the company's growth is similar to the average industry growth of 12% in
the same 5-year period.




NasdaqGS:ANDE Past Earnings Growth December 2nd 2025

The basis for attaching value to a company is, to a great extent, tied to its earnings growth.
What investors need to determine next is if the expected earnings growth, or the lack of it, is
already built into the share price. By doing so, they will have an idea if the stock is headed
into clear blue waters or if swampy waters await. Is Andersons fairly valued compared to
other companies? These 3 valuation measures might help you decide.
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard



Is There An Opportunity With Riverstone Holdings Limited's
(SGX:AP4) 39% Undervaluation?
Simply Wall St
Thu, December 18, 2025 at 4:49 PM GMT+9 • 6 min read

In this article:
  AP4.SI
Key Insights
  Using the 2 Stage Free Cash Flow to Equity, Riverstone Holdings fair value estimate is
  S$1.40
  Riverstone Holdings' S$0.85 share price signals that it might be 39% undervalued
  The RM0.92 analyst price target for AP4 is 34% less than our estimate of fair value
In this article we are going to estimate the intrinsic value of Riverstone Holdings Limited
(SGX:AP4) by projecting its future cash flows and then discounting them to today's value. We
will take advantage of the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model for this purpose. There's really
not all that much to it, even though it might appear quite complex.
We would caution that there are many ways of valuing a company and, like the DCF, each
technique has advantages and disadvantages in certain scenarios. If you want to learn more
about discounted cash flow, the rationale behind this calculation can be read in detail in the
Simply Wall St analysis model.
This technology could replace computers: discover the 20 stocks are working to make
quantum computing a reality.
Step By Step Through The Calculation
We're using the 2-stage growth model, which simply means we take in account two stages of
company's growth. In the initial period the company may have a higher growth rate and the
second stage is usually assumed to have a stable growth rate. In the first stage we need to
estimate the cash flows to the business over the next ten years. Where possible we use
analyst estimates, but when these aren't available we extrapolate the previous free cash flow
(FCF) from the last estimate or reported value. We assume companies with shrinking free
cash flow will slow their rate of shrinkage, and that companies with growing free cash flow
will see their growth rate slow, over this period. We do this to reflect that growth tends to slow
more in the early years than it does in later years.
Generally we assume that a dollar today is more valuable than a dollar in the future, so we
need to discount the sum of these future cash flows to arrive at a present value estimate:
10-year free cash flow (FCF) estimate
                2026          2027      2028   2029       2030       2031       2032        2033
Levered
FCF (MYR, RM209.3mRM242.6mRM240.1mRM266.1mRM281.2mRM294.4mRM306.2mRM31
Millions)
Growth
Rate      Analyst x3 Analyst x3 Analyst x1 Analyst x1 Est @ Est @ Est @ Est @
Estimate                                              5.65% 4.70% 4.03% 3.56%
Source
Present
Value
(MYR, RM197 RM214 RM199 RM207 RM205 RM202 RM197                                            RM19
Millions)
Discounted
@ 6.5%
("Est" = FCF growth rate estimated by Simply Wall St)
Present Value of 10-year Cash Flow (PVCF) = RM2.0b
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard



SThree (LON:STEM) May Have Issues Allocating Its Capital
Simply Wall St
Wed, December 17, 2025 at 10:28 PM GMT+9 • 3 min read

In this article:
  STEM.L
If we want to find a stock that could multiply over the long term, what are the underlying
trends we should look for? Ideally, a business will show two trends; firstly a growing return on
capital employed (ROCE) and secondly, an increasing amount of capital employed. If you see
this, it typically means it's a company with a great business model and plenty of profitable
reinvestment opportunities. However, after briefly looking over the numbers, we don't think
SThree (LON:STEM) has the makings of a multi-bagger going forward, but let's have a look at
why that may be.
We've found 21 US stocks that are forecast to pay a dividend yield of over 6% next year. See
the full list for free.
Return On Capital Employed (ROCE): What Is It?
Just to clarify if you're unsure, ROCE is a metric for evaluating how much pre-tax income (in
percentage terms) a company earns on the capital invested in its business. Analysts use this
formula to calculate it for SThree:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) ÷ (Total Assets -
Current Liabilities)
0.15 = UK£39m ÷ (UK£443m - UK£191m) (Based on the trailing twelve months to May 2025).
Therefore, SThree has an ROCE of 15%. That's a pretty standard return and it's in line with
the industry average of 15%.
See our latest analysis for SThree




LSE:STEM Return on Capital Employed December 17th 2025

Above you can see how the current ROCE for SThree compares to its prior returns on capital,
but there's only so much you can tell from the past. If you'd like to see what analysts are
forecasting going forward, you should check out our free analyst report for SThree .
What The Trend Of ROCE Can Tell Us
On the surface, the trend of ROCE at SThree doesn't inspire confidence. Around five years
ago the returns on capital were 34%, but since then they've fallen to 15%. Given the business
is employing more capital while revenue has slipped, this is a bit concerning. If this were to
continue, you might be looking at a company that is trying to reinvest for growth but is
actually losing market share since sales haven't increased.
On a related note, SThree has decreased its current liabilities to 43% of total assets. So we
could link some of this to the decrease in ROCE. Effectively this means their suppliers or
short-term creditors are funding less of the business, which reduces some elements of risk.
Since the business is basically funding more of its operations with it's own money, you could
argue this has made the business less efficient at generating ROCE. Either way, they're still at
a pretty high level, so we'd like to see them fall further if possible.
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard



Kinatico Ltd's (ASX:KYP) Stock Has Shown Weakness Lately But
Financial Prospects Look Decent: Is The Market Wrong?
Simply Wall St
November 30, 2025 • 3 min read

In this article:
  KYP.AX
Kinatico (ASX:KYP) has had a rough month with its share price down 22%. However, stock
prices are usually driven by a company’s financials over the long term, which in this case look
pretty respectable. In this article, we decided to focus on Kinatico's ROE.
Return on Equity or ROE is a test of how effectively a company is growing its value and
managing investors’ money. Put another way, it reveals the company's success at turning
shareholder investments into profits.
Trump has pledged to "unleash" American oil and gas and these 15 US stocks have
developments that are poised to benefit.
How Do You Calculate Return On Equity?
Return on equity can be calculated by using the formula:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for Kinatico is:
4.1% = AU$1.1m ÷ AU$27m (Based on the trailing twelve months to June 2025).
The 'return' is the profit over the last twelve months. That means that for every A$1 worth of
shareholders' equity, the company generated A$0.04 in profit.
Check out our latest analysis for Kinatico
What Has ROE Got To Do With Earnings Growth?
So far, we've learned that ROE is a measure of a company's profitability. We now need to
evaluate how much profit the company reinvests or "retains" for future growth which then
gives us an idea about the growth potential of the company. Generally speaking, other things
being equal, firms with a high return on equity and profit retention, have a higher growth rate
than firms that don’t share these attributes.
Kinatico's Earnings Growth And 4.1% ROE
It is hard to argue that Kinatico's ROE is much good in and of itself. Even compared to the
average industry ROE of 5.6%, the company's ROE is quite dismal. However, we we're
pleasantly surprised to see that Kinatico grew its net income at a significant rate of 51% in the
last five years. Therefore, there could be other reasons behind this growth. Such as - high
earnings retention or an efficient management in place.
Next, on comparing with the industry net income growth, we found that Kinatico's growth is
quite high when compared to the industry average growth of 22% in the same period, which is
great to see.
ASX:KYP Past Earnings Growth November 29th 2025

Earnings growth is a huge factor in stock valuation. The investor should try to establish if the
expected growth or decline in earnings, whichever the case may be, is priced in. This then
helps them determine if the stock is placed for a bright or bleak future. Is KYP fairly valued?
This infographic on the company's intrinsic value has everything you need to know.
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard



Is M1 Kliniken AG's (ETR:M12) Latest Stock Performance A
Reflection Of Its Financial Health?
Simply Wall St
December 11, 2025 • 4 min read

In this article:
  M12.DE
M1 Kliniken's (ETR:M12) stock is up by a considerable 33% over the past three months. Since
the market usually pay for a company’s long-term fundamentals, we decided to study the
company’s key performance indicators to see if they could be influencing the market.
Specifically, we decided to study M1 Kliniken's ROE in this article.
Return on equity or ROE is an important factor to be considered by a shareholder because it
tells them how effectively their capital is being reinvested. Simply put, it is used to assess the
profitability of a company in relation to its equity capital.
Trump has pledged to "unleash" American oil and gas and these 15 US stocks have
developments that are poised to benefit.
How Is ROE Calculated?
The formula for return on equity is:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for M1 Kliniken is:
13% = €20m ÷ €147m (Based on the trailing twelve months to June 2025).
The 'return' is the income the business earned over the last year. So, this means that for every
€1 of its shareholder's investments, the company generates a profit of €0.13.
See our latest analysis for M1 Kliniken
What Has ROE Got To Do With Earnings Growth?
We have already established that ROE serves as an efficient profit-generating gauge for a
company's future earnings. Based on how much of its profits the company chooses to
reinvest or "retain", we are then able to evaluate a company's future ability to generate profits.
Assuming everything else remains unchanged, the higher the ROE and profit retention, the
higher the growth rate of a company compared to companies that don't necessarily bear
these characteristics.
A Side By Side comparison of M1 Kliniken's Earnings Growth And
13% ROE
To start with, M1 Kliniken's ROE looks acceptable. On comparing with the average industry
ROE of 6.2% the company's ROE looks pretty remarkable. This probably laid the ground for M1
Kliniken's significant 21% net income growth seen over the past five years. However, there
could also be other causes behind this growth. Such as - high earnings retention or an
efficient management in place.
As a next step, we compared M1 Kliniken's net income growth with the industry and found
that the company has a similar growth figure when compared with the industry average
growth rate of 20% in the same period.
XTRA:M12 Past Earnings Growth December 11th 2025

The basis for attaching value to a company is, to a great extent, tied to its earnings growth.
What investors need to determine next is if the expected earnings growth, or the lack of it, is
already built into the share price. Doing so will help them establish if the stock's future looks
promising or ominous. If you're wondering about M1 Kliniken's's valuation, check out this
gauge of its price-to-earnings ratio, as compared to its industry.
   Story Continues
Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard




Recommended Stories
                          What's trending   Explore more     About
Copyright © 2025 Yahoo.   Dow Jones         Mortgages        Data Disclaimer
All rights reserved.      S&P 500           Credit Cards     Help
                          DAX Index         Sectors          Feedback
                          Nvidia            Crypto Heatmap   Sitemap
                          Tesla             Financial News   Licensing
                          DJT                                What's New
                          Tariffs                            About Our Ads
