2025/12/20 22:25                                    Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
  Home |   中文站



                                 About GACC        Legislation        Newsroom          Customs Reform         Service Center        Statistics



                   Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the
                   People’s Republic of China No.237
                   03/12/2018
                   The Measures for Enterprise Credit Management by the Customs Administration of the People’s Republic of China, which was

                   adopted at the executive meeting of the General Administration of Customs on January 29, 2018, is hereby promulgated, and

                   shall come into effect as of May 1, 2018.


                                                                                                                                      Yu Guangzhou

                                                                                                                                               Minister
                                                                                                                 General Administration of Customs

                                                                                                                                      March 3, 2018




                                       Measures for Enterprise Credit Management by the Customs Administration of

                                                                  the People’s Republic of China




                                                                   Chapter I General Provisions



                   Article 1

                   The Measures is formulated in accordance with the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China, Regulations on Customs
                   Audit of the People’s Republic of China, Interim Regulations on Public Disclosure of Enterprise Information and other related

                   laws and administrative regulations for the purposes of pressing ahead the development of social credit system, establishing

                   import and export credit management of enterprises and promoting trade security and facilitation.



                   Article 2
                   The Measures shall apply to the collection and public disclosure of the credit information of enterprises registered and filed

                   with the Customs and that of relevant personnel of enterprises, as well as the determination and management of enterprise
                   credit status.



                   Article 3
                   The Customs will, in light of the credit status, accredit the enterprises as certified enterprise, general-credit enterprise and
                   discredited enterprise. Certified enterprises are further classified into advanced certified enterprise and general certified

                   enterprise.
                   The Customs will, pursuant to the principle of facilitations for enterprises that act in good faith and in compliance with laws

                   and sanctions for those that lose credit and violate laws, apply corresponding controls to the aforesaid enterprises.



                   Article 4
                   Collaborating with other state departments, the Customs implements joint incentives for the trustworthy enterprises and joint
                   sanctions upon the discredited enterprises, and furthers mutual exchange of information, mutual recognition of supervision

                   and mutual assistance in law enforcement (hereafter referred to as the “3M”) in light of the requirements on the establishment
                   of social credit system.



                   Article 5

                   Certified enterprises are Authorized Economic Operators (AEO) recognized by China Customs. China Customs carries out
                   mutual recognition of AEOs with the Customs administrations of other countries or regions in accordance with international
                   treaties, laws and this Measures, and grant corresponding benefits to mutually recognized AEOs.

                   China Customs will enhance the 3M cooperation among customs authorities based on the need for international cooperation.


english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                                  1/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                     Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
                                            Chapter II    Collection and Public Announcement of Credit Information



                   Article 6
                   The Customs administration may collect the following information that can reflect the credit status of an enterprise:

                   1. Registration or recordation of the enterprise and basic information of relevant personnel affiliated with the enterprise;
                   2. Import and export activities

                   3. Administrative license;
                   4. Administrative and criminal penalties of the enterprise and relevant personnel;
                   5. Joint incentives and sanctions taken by the Customs Administration and other state departments concerned;

                   6. AEO mutual recognition;
                   7. Other information that reflects the credit status of an enterprise.



                   Article 7
                   The Customs Administration establishes the credit information management system of enterprises and carry out control based

                   on credit. The enterprises concerned shall, from January 1 to June 30, submit the Annual Credit Report to the Customs
                   Administration through the system.

                   Enterprises registered or filed with the Customs Administration in the current year shall submit the Annual Credit Report from
                   the second year.


                   Article 8

                   In any of the following circumstances, the enterprise is grouped into the directory of enterprises with abnormal credit
                   information:
                   1. Failing to submit the Annual Credit Report to the Customs Administration as required;

                   2. Unable to locate the residence or business site as registered with the Customs Administration after a site visit, and failed to

                   reach the enterprise by using the contact information registered with the Customs Administration.
                   The credit level of the enterprise shall not be upgraded when it is listed in the directory of enterprises with abnormal credit
                   information.
                   When the first circumstance indicated in the first paragraph of Article 8 is no longer exists, the Customs Administration shall
                   remove the enterprise out of the directory of enterprises with abnormal credit information.



                   Article 9
                   Without prejudice to the protection of state secret, trade secret and personal privacy, the Customs Administration shall
                   publicly disclose the following credit information of an enterprise:
                   1. Registration or recordation with Customs Administration;

                   2. The result of Customs Administration determination on the credit status;
                   3. Administrative licenses;
                   4. Administrative penalties;
                   5. Joint incentives and joint sanctions taken by the Customs Administration and other state departments concerned;
                   6. Directory of enterprises with abnormal credit information determined by the Customs Administration

                   7. Other information that should be disclosed in accordance with laws.
                   The term of public disclosure of information regarding administrative sanctions against the enterprise is five years.
                   The Customs Administration shall publish the method of searching for the credit information described above.



                   Article 10
                   Where deeming that the credit information publicized by the Customs Administration is inaccurate, a natural person, legal
                   person or unincorporated organization may raise objections to the Customs Administration with supporting materials or
                   evidence.

                   The Customs Administration shall review the information within twenty (20) days of receipt of the objection application, and

                   shall accept the objection if the justifications proposed by the natural person, legal person or unincorporated organization are

                   tenable.



                                   Chapter III Criteria and Procedures of Determination of an Enterprise’s Credit Status



                   Article 11

                   A certified enterprise shall be in compliance with the Criteria of Certified Enterprises of the Customs Administration developed

                   by the General Administration of China Customs.



english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                                2/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                      Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
                   The Criteria of Certified Enterprises of the Customs Administration comprises of criteria for advanced certified enterprises and
                   criteria for general certified enterprises.



                   Article 12
                   In any of the following circumstances, an enterprise shall be determined as discredited:
                   1. Committing the crime of smuggling or conducting an act of smuggling;

                   2. For enterprises other than Customs brokers, the number of violation against Customs regulatory provisions within one year

                   exceeding 0.1% of the total number of the declarations, entry-exit filing lists, and manifests of the inbound and outbound

                   conveyance of the previous year, and administrative sanctions amounted to more than RMB 1 million(1,000,000)

                   accumulatively.
                   For Customs brokers, the number of violation against customs regulatory provisions within one year exceeding 0.05% of the

                   total number of the declaration forms and entry-exit filing lists and manifests of the inbound and outbound conveyance of the
                   previous year, and administrative sanctions amounted to more than RMB 300 thousand(300,000) accumulatively.
                   3. In arrears with payable taxes and/or fines and confiscated illegal gains due;
                   4. Meeting the second circumstance indicated in the first paragraph of Article 8 and listed in the directory of enterprises with
                   abnormal credit information for more than ninty ( 90) days;

                   5. Fraudulently using the name of the Customs Administration or other enterprises
                   to seek illegal profit;
                   6. Concealing facts from the Customs Administration and providing false information which exerts negative impact on
                   enterprise credit management;
                   7. Resisting and hindering the law enforcement of the Customs officers with severe consequences;

                   8. Being included in the national list of discredited enterprises subject to joint sanctions due to criminal offence;
                   9. Other circumstances provided by the General Administration of Customs;

                   When the accumulative amount of administrative penalties against enterprises other than customs brokers, customs brokers

                   recorded and registered with the Customs Administration in the current year exceeds RMB 1 million(1,000,000) and RMB300

                   thousand (300,000) respectively within one year due to the violation of Customs regulatory provisions, they are regarded as

                   the discredited by the Customs Administration.


                   Article 13

                   In any of the following circumstances, an enterprise shall be determined as general-credit by the Customs Administration:
                   1. Registration or recordation with the Customs Administration for the first time;

                   2. Failing to meet the Criteria of Certified Enterprises of the Customs Administration as a certified enterprise, but no

                   circumstances indicated in Article 12 occurred; or
                   3. No circumstances set out in Article 12 occurred over the past 2 consecutive years since the day when the enterprise

                   determined as discredited by the Customs Administration.


                   Article 14

                   In application for the status of a certified enterprise, the enterprise shall submit the Application Form of Certified Enterprises
                   to the Customs Administration. The Customs Administration shall authorize the enterprise pursuant to the Criteria of Certified

                   Enterprises of the Customs Administration.


                   Article 15

                   The Customs Administration shall determine whether the credit status of the enterprise under certification meets the Criteria
                   of Certified Enterprises of the Customs Administration. within ninety (90) days of receipt of the Application Form of Certified

                   Enterprises. The term of customs certification can be extended for thirty(30) days under special circumstances.


                   Article 16

                   The Customs Administration grants the Certificate for Certified Enterprise to the enterprise passing customs certification. The

                   Decision Letter of Disapproval for Certified Enterprises Management is issued to the enterprise that fails in the certification.

                   Both the Certificate for Certified Enterprise and Decision Letter of Disapproval for Certified Enterprises Management shall be

                   delivered to the applicants and shall come into force on the date of delivery.
                   The enterprise withdrawing the applications on its own initiative is regarded as failure in certification.

                   The enterprise tfailing to pass the certification is not allowed to apply for a new certification to the Customs Administration
                   within one year.



                   Article 17



english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                                3/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                     Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
                   During the process of application and certification, the Customs Administration shall terminate the certification if the
                   enterprise is detected or investigated due to being suspected of smuggling. The Customs Administration may also terminate

                   the certification If the enterprise is suspected of breaching Customs regulatory provisions.

                   During the process of application and certification, if the enterprises are audited or inspected by the Customs Administration,
                   the Customs Administration may suspend the certification. The Customs Administration shall terminate the certification if the

                   suspension exceeds three months.


                   Article 18

                   The Customs Administration shall re-authorize the advanced certified enterprises every three (3) years and re-authorize the
                   general certified enterprises on an irregular basis.

                   The Customs Administration shall inform the enterprises concerned before the re-certification and follow the certification

                   procedure. Where it fails in the re-certification, the enterprise shall be issued the Decision Letters of Disapproval for Certified
                   Enterprises Management and its credit status shall be adjusted. The Decision Letters of Disapproval for Certified Enterprises

                   Management shall be delivered to the applicants and shall come into force on the date of delivery.

                   During the re-certification process, if the enterprise applies to abandon the certification, it is deemed as failure in certification.



                   Article 19
                   A certified enterprise that has been downgraded to the general-credit status by the Customs Administration shall not apply for

                   the certified status within one year. A certified enterprise that has been downgraded to the discredited status by the Customs
                   Administration shall not apply for the certified status within two years.

                   An advanced certified enterprise that has been downgraded to the general-certified status by the Customs Administration shall

                   not apply for the advanced certified status within one year.


                   Article 20
                   Provided that the enterprise does not fall in any of the circumstances set out in Article 12 from the date of being certified as a

                   discredited enterprise over the past two consecutive years, the Customs Administration shall upgrade the status of the

                   enterprise from discredited to general-credit.
                   A discredited enterprise that has been upgraded to the general-credit status for one full year may apply for the certified status

                   to the Customs Administration.


                   Article 21

                   Where the spin-offs or merger happens to an enterprise, the Customs Administration shall make corresponding adjustments to
                   the certification result of enterprise credit status pursuant to the following principles:

                   1. In the case of split-off of an enterprise, where the survived enterprise succeeds the major rights and obligations of the
                   predecessor enterprise, the result of credit status of the predecessor enterprise determined by the Customs Administration

                   and the corresponding management measures shall apply to the survived enterprise, and other divided enterprises shall be

                   deemed as enterprises registered or recorded with the Customs Administration for the first time;
                   2. In the case of split-up of an enterprise, the divided enterprises shall be deemed as enterprises registered or recorded for

                   the first time;
                   3. In the case of merger, the certification result of credit status of the survived enterprise determined by the Customs

                   Administration shall apply to the merged enterprise; and

                   4. In the case of consolidation, the consolidated enterprise shall be deemed as an enterprise registered or recorded for the
                   first time.


                   Article 22

                   The Customs Administration or the applicant enterprise may commission social intermediaries to issue professional conclusions

                   regarding related issues of the certification.


                                                                    Chapter IV Management Measures


                   Article 23

                   The following management measures shall apply to general certified enterprises:
                   1. The average inspection rate for import and export goods 50% lower than that of the general-credit enterprises;

                   2. Priority in processing import and export clearance formalities; and

                   3. The amount of customs deposit lower than the total amount of payable taxes or that prescribed by the General
                   Administration of Customs

                   4. Other management measures provided by the General Administration of Customs.


english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                                    4/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                     Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237


                   Article 24

                   In addition to the benefits applicable to general certified enterprises, the following management measures shall also apply to

                   advanced certified enterprises:
                   1. The average inspection rate for import and export goods 20% lower than that of the general-credit enterprises;

                   2. Application for the exemption of guarantee;
                   3. Reduced frequency of auditing and inspection;

                   4. Declaration made to Customs prior to the arrival of export cargos in the Customs supervision area;

                   5. Coordinators designated by the Customs Administration;
                   6. Benefits offered by the Customs Administrations of the countries or regions with the mutual recognition of AEOs;

                   7. Joint incentives provided by other relevant state departments;
                   8. Priority for customs clearance after the resumption of international trade interrupted by force majeure;

                   9. Other management measures provided by the General Administration of Customs.


                   Article 25

                   The following management measures shall apply to the discredited enterprises:
                   1. Over 80% of the average inspection rate of import and export goods;

                   2. No exemption of the costs of lifting, moving and storage caused by the Customs inspection in any circumstance;

                   3. Inapplicable to the rule of consolidated payment of taxes;
                   4. Not subject to the release upon the retaintion of samples or images of import and export cargos except for special

                   circumstances described otherwise;
                   5. Full amount of deposit of guarantee for processing trade;

                   6. Increased frequency of audit and review;

                   7. Joint sanctions implemented by related state departments;
                   8. Other management measures provided by the General Administration of Customs.


                   Article 26

                   The management measures applicable to advanced certified enterprises shall be superior to those applicable to general

                   certified enterprises.
                   Where there is a conflict in the applicable management measures due to the different results of determination on the credit

                   status, the Customs Administration shall apply the management measures pursuant to inferior principles.


                   Article 27

                   Where a certified enterprise is detected or investigated due to being suspected of smuggling, the Customs Administration shall
                   suspend the applicability of corresponding management measures. Where a certified enterprise, being suspected of violating

                   customs regulatory provisions, is thus investigated, the Customs Administration shall suspend the applicability of
                   corresponding management measures. The enterprises falling into the above circumstances shall be treated as general-credit

                   enterprises.


                   Article 28

                   The Customs Administration shall suspend the applicability of corresponding management measures if the credit level of
                   enterprises is downgraded, and apply management measures in the light of the adjusted credit level.



                                                               Chapter V    Supplementary Provisions


                   Article 29

                   The crime of smuggling, as a reference of determining the credit status of an enterprise, shall be ascertained on the basis of
                   the effective date of the legal instruments of judicial agencies.

                   The acts of smuggling and violations of customs regulatory provisions on which the determination of credit status of an
                   enterprise is based shall be ascertained on the basis of the date on which the administrative sanction decision is rendered by

                   the Customs Administration.

                   The acts of voluntary discloure by an enterprise and the resulting warnings or fines under RMB 50 thousand (50,000) by the
                   Customs Administration shall not be deemed as a record in determining its credit status.


                   Article 30

                   The meanings of the following terms in the Measures:




english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                            5/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                       Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
                   “Related personnel of the enterprise” refers to the administrative staff of the enterprise, including legal representative,
                   principal responsible person, chief financial person, and person in charge of customs affairs,

                   “Amount of administrative sanctions” refers to the sum of penalties imposed by the Customs Administration and the amount of
                   illegal gains and/or the value of the goods and articles confiscated by the Customs Administration due to violations of customs

                   regulatory provisions.

                   “In arrears with taxes payable” refers to the failure to pay, over three months upon the due date, the sum of payable tariffs
                   and other taxes levied by the Customs Administration on other agencies’ behalf for import and export goods and articles

                   during importation and exportation, including the taxes payable in addition to the penalties imposed by the Customs
                   Administration upon determination of a violation of the customs regulatory provisions.

                   “In arrears with penalties and/or confiscated illegal gains due” refers to the failure to pay the penalties imposed by and illegal

                   gains confiscated by and the amount equivalent to the value of the smuggled goods and articles pursued by the Customs
                   Administration, over six months upon the expiry date set out in the administrative sanction decision of the Customs

                   Administration.
                   “Day” refers to a natural day.

                   “One year” refers to twelve consecutive months.
                   “Year” refers to a calendar year.
                   “Above” and “below” shall include the given figure.

                   “Authorized Economic Operator” (AEO) is an enterprise involved in the international movement of goods in whatever function,

                   conforming to     the conditions set out herein and the Criteria of Certified Enterprises     of the Customs Administration, and

                   certified by the Customs Administration.



                   Article 31
                   The General Administration of Customs shall be responsible for the interpretation to the Measures.



                   Article 32
                   The Measures shall come into effect on May 1, 2018.
                   The Interim Measures of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Credit
                   Management promulgated in the form of Decree No. 225 of the General Administration of Customs on October 8th, 2014 shall

                   be abolished simultaneously.


                   Recommended:

                   [09/29/2025] Video:Our National Gateway

                   [09/19/2025] Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Customs Protection of Intellectual Property Rights

                   [05/9/2025] The issue of developing Smart Customs takes centre stage at the WCO’s Multi-Regional Workshop on Disruptive

                   Technologies
                   [05/9/2025] Disruptive Technologies Transforming Customs: Insights from the WCO Regional Workshop in Jakarta

                   [05/9/2025] Fostering collaboration: Recent developments on the WCO Smart Customs Community Portal during the Project

                   Meetings with the National Contact Points

                   [05/9/2025] WCO Smart Customs Project kickstarts with dynamic online meetings with National Contact Points (NCPs)

                   [05/9/2025] Empowering Customs through disruptive technologies: Launching the WCO Smart Customs Project in the WCO

                   Americas and Caribbean Region

                   [05/9/2025] WCO and China Customs launch Smart Customs Project




                   Recently Read:




             About GACC                                               Quick Links                                       Friendly Links
             Mission                                                  Legislation                                      the State Council of People's Republic
             The Minister                                             News                                             of China

             Principal Officials                                      China Customs Statistics                          Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
             Organizational Structure                                 Service Guide                                     People's Republic of China
             Rank Regime                                              Clearance Status


english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                                         6/7
2025/12/20 22:25                                 Decree of the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China No.237
             Annual Reports                                     Service Navigations                               Ministry of Commerce People's
                                                                                                                  Republic of China
                                                                                                                  China.org.cn

                                                                                                                  World Customs Organization
                                                                                                                  World Trade Organization
                                                                                                                  ETCN




             STATEMENT
             General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China
             Address: No.6. Jianguomennei Avenue, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China         Postcode: 100730




english.customs.gov.cn/statics/06e7cf08-47cf-42fd-80f3-cec28eae9125.html                                                                          7/7
