   Hobbling Big Brother: Top-Level Design
      and Local Discretion in China’s
            Social Credit System
                 Wen-Hsuan Tsai, Hsin-Hsien Wang, and Ruihua Lin*


                                                   ABSTRACT
    This article argues that policy implementation in China has moved toward a system under
    which the center formulates a blueprint or “top-level design” from which local ofﬁcials devise
    detailed regulations through a process of “crossing the river by feeling for stones.” This applies
    to the development of China’s new social credit system. To minimize political risk, when im-
    plementing it local ofﬁcials have selected easier goals from the “top-level design” blueprint. In
    City Z, for example, we ﬁnd that promoting integrity among businesses is less risky than pro-
    moting integrity among civil servants or the general public, so less progress has been made in
    the latter two areas when putting in place integrity credit-point systems. The risks involved in
    promoting social credit among the general populace are the greatest, so the city’s efforts in this
    have been limited. From our empirical study of China’s social credit system in City Z, we draw
    some conclusions about policy implementation under Xi Jinping.




H     ow the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) implements its policies has been
      an important topic among English-language political scientists who study
China.1 For a long time, the academic community has realized that the CCP tries
to minimize the risks involved in the introduction of reforms by proceeding grad-
ually and gingerly, what is known as “crossing the river by feeling for stones”
(mozhe shitou guohe 摸着石头过河), sometimes referred to in China as the “feel-
ing for stones theory” (mo lun 摸论), to avoid the kind of “big bang” errors that


    *We gratefully acknowledge suggestions from the two anonymous China Journal reviewers, the editing
by Anita Chan and Jonathan Unger, and Taiwan’s Ministry of Science and Technology (Project Number:
MOST 109-2410-H-001-024-MY2 and MOST 109-2410-H-004-089-MY3) and China’s National Social Sci-
ence Foundation (grant 18BZZ114) for their support for this study. Corresponding author: Ruihua Lin (emmy388@
gmail.com).
    1. Kevin J. O’Brien and Lianjiang Li, “Selective Policy Implementation in Rural China,” Comparative
Politics 31, no. 2 (January 1999): 167–86; Anna L. Ahlers and Gunter Schubert, “Effective Policy Implemen-
tation in China’s Local State,” Modern China 41, no. 4 (2015): 372–405.

Electronically published May 5, 2021
The China Journal, no. 86 (July 2021). q 2021 by The Australian National University. 1324-9347/2021/8601-0001. All rights
reserved. DOI: 10.1086/714492


                                                       • 1      •
2 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


hobbled the Soviet Union under Gorbachev.2 “Feeling for stones” helps explain
why the CCP regime has been so resilient.3 With this in mind, the central gov-
ernment regularly introduces innovative policies by means of local pilot projects.
This phenomenon has been characterized by Sebastian Heilmann as “experimen-
tation under hierarchy.”4
   Having adopted “feeling for stones” practices for about three decades, the CCP
came up with another concept in the Twelfth Five-Year Plan of 2011—“top-level
design” dingceng sheji (顶层设计).5 According to this concept, the central govern-
ment ﬁrst devises a comprehensive, long-term plan for any reform or innova-
tion.6 Local governments are then required to formulate detailed policies in line
with the plan and with local conditions. This article will use China’s new social
credit system (shehui xinyong tixi 社会信用体系) as a case study of how this gets
implemented and the limitations of this approach.
   In 2014, the State Council of China promulgated the Outline for the Develop-
ment of a Social Credit System, 2014–2020 (hereinafter referred to as the Outline),
specifying that this system was to be completed in 2020. The Outline can be regarded
as the long-term, comprehensive “top-level design” for social credit. The Out-
line sets out a system of credit scores for business owners, civil servants, the judi-
ciary, and all individual members of the public.7 Under this system, Chinese busi-
nesses and individuals whose credit scores are too low can be blacklisted.8 The
original motive for establishing the social credit system was the need to maintain



    2. Ronald McKinnon, “Gradual versus Rapid Liberalization in Socialist Economies: The Problem of
Macroeconomic Control,” World Bank Economic Review 7, no. 1 (October 1993): 63–94. Yasheng Huang,
“Information, Bureaucracy, and Economic Reforms in China and the Soviet Union,” World Politics 47,
no. 1 (October 1994): 119; Minxin Pei, From Reform to Revolution: The Demise of Communism in China
and the Soviet Union (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1994).
    3. Andrew Nathan, “Authoritarian Resilience,” Journal of Democracy 14, no. 1 (2003): 6–17.
    4. Sebastian Heilmann, “From Local Experiments to National Policy: The Origins of China’s Distinctive
Policy Process,” China Journal, no. 59 (January 2008): 1–30.
    5. Wu Xiaowei, “Liu He: The Driving Force of Economic Policy,” Wenhui wang (Wenweipo), October 24,
2013, http://news.wenweipo.com/2013/10/24/IN1310240023.htm, accessed October 11, 2020.
    6. Anna L. Ahlers, “Introduction: Chinese Governance in the Era of ‘Top-Level Design,’” Journal of
Chinese Governance 3, no. 3 (2018): 263–67.
    7. In the CCP’s planning of the social credit system, “judicial integrity” is an independent category. This
was in response to public opinion in recent years, and intends to improve the quality of case reviews
through the credit rating of judicial ofﬁcers. In practice, we ﬁnd that the difference between the judicial cat-
egory and other categories of “government integrity” in the social credit system is not that obvious. Both
emphasize that civil servants must abide by the law, observe discipline, and properly disclose information
in the process of executing public duties. Thus, this article incorporates judicial credit into the “government
integrity” category. “Guowuyuan shehui xinyong tixi jianshe guihua gangyao (2014–2020 nian)” [Outline
for the development of a social credit system (2014–2020)], Central People’s Government of the People’s
Republic of China, June 27, 2014. http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2014-06/27/content_8913.htm.
    8. Rogier Creemers, “China’s Social Credit System: An Evolving Practice of Control,” SSRN, https://
papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_idp3175792, accessed October 11, 2020.
                                                                          Hobbling Big Brother     •   3


stability by subjecting business owners, local civil servants, and the public to com-
prehensive surveillance.9
   The city of Rongcheng (荣城) in Shandong has been designated by the CCP as a
model city for the implementation of social credit, and therefore has attracted par-
ticular attention from observers.10 The media has publicized that the rating system
established by the city has enabled its government to control the behavior of citi-
zens. The city annually selects people with high scores to be “stars of integrity”
(chengxin mingxing 诚信明星) and announces the names to provide good exam-
ples to the people, encouraging them to abide by the government’s requirements
in order to receive high scores.11 Observing such practices and China’s technolog-
ical advances, some academics believe that the social credit system is enabling the
Chinese government to play a Big Brother role as portrayed in George Orwell’s
novel 1984—that is, the role of a terrifying and omnipresent monitor.12
   In contrast to such a scenario, during our on-site ﬁeldwork we were surprised
to ﬁnd that as of late 2020, local government promotion of social credit is far from
this outcome, let alone meeting the requirements of the Outline. One important
reason is the lack of clarity in the central government’s top-level design, with lo-
cal governments reportedly confused about how best to implement the numer-
ous requirements of the Outline. For one thing, the implications of “integrity”
(or “credit”) in the Outline are not entirely clear, and they take on different mean-
ings in business, government, and societal settings. An ofﬁcial in another city,
City W, even told us, “What’s the deﬁnition of credit or integrity in the social
credit system? I really can’t ﬁgure it out. Is it possible that you scholars can do
some research in this respect and tell me?”13 Ofﬁcials are also worried about
the political risks if their performance falls short of the central government’s ex-
pectations, including a risk of the ofﬁcials’ punishment or even dismissal.14


     9. Maintaining stability may be the most important goal of the CCP’s social management measures.
Jonathan Benney, “Weiwen at the Grassroots: China’s Stability Maintenance Apparatus as a Means of Con-
ﬂict Resolution,” Journal of Contemporary China 25, no. 99 (2016): 389–405.
    10. Zhao Qiuli, “Shandong Rongcheng: Rang xinyong chengwei chengshi ‘jinzi zhaopai’ ” [Shandong’s
Rongcheng: Let Credit Become the City’s “Golden Signboard”], Xinhua wang [Xinhua Net], 2018, http://
www.xinhuanet.com/politics/2018-09/27/c_1123488320.htm, accessed November 11, 2020.
    11. “Quanyang shi pingfenzhi, chenggong caokong cunmin xingwei” [Captive-bred-typed rating system,
successfully manipulate behaviors of villagers], Pingguo Ribao [Apple Daily], October 3, 2019, https://
hk.appledaily.com/local/20191003/YSJE4BJKTAJKNUQCYHJ6MEXLJE/, accessed March 15, 2021.
    12. Shoshana Zuboff, The Age of Surveillance Capitalism: The Fight for a Human Future at the New
Frontier of Power (New York: PublicAffairs, 2019), 388–94; Fan Liang, Vishnupriya Das, Nadiya Kostyuk,
and Muzammil M. Hussain, “Constructing a Data-Driven Society: China’s Social Credit System as a State
Surveillance Infrastructure,” Policy & Internet 10, no. 4 (2018): 415–38; Kai Strittmatter, We Have Been
Harmonized: Life in China’s Surveillance State (New York: Custom House, 2020).
    13. Interview with a staff member in the Development and Reform Commission of City W, Septem-
ber 23, 2020.
    14. Interview with a member of the production team from German C Media, ﬁlming the documentary
Social Credit System, Taipei, September 27, 2020.
4 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


    Our ﬁndings about the social credit program are based largely on ﬁeld work.
We have augmented written sources by personally carrying out interviews in
City Z in China’s eastern coastal region from September to November 2020.
We interviewed 23 people in the city, including 6 ofﬁcials who are directly en-
gaged in the program, 11 ordinary members of the public, 5 scholars, and one
reporter. In addition, we also conducted ﬁeld observations and collected data
at the city’s Development and Reform Commission ( fagaiwei 发改委) and the
municipal Big Data Commission (dashujuwei 大数据委).
    City Z was one of several cities selected in 2018 and 2019 as a “model city” to
promote the social credit system.15 Given its status as a model city, we expected
City Z to be one of the most advanced areas of the country with regard to the es-
tablishment of social credit. However, the results on the ground have not lived up
to expectations. If a model city like Z cannot fulﬁll the reform’s goals, how can other
cities be expected to do any better? Far from running smoothly, China’s Big Brother
may only be hobbling along. This article will discuss the reasons for this and the
implications for China’s current system of policy implementation.

       F R O M “ F E E L I N G FO R S T O N E S” T O “ T O P - L E V E L D E S I G N ”
In 2020 Liu He (刘鹤), deputy director of the national government’s Ofﬁce of the
Central Leading Group for Financial and Economic Affairs said, “Although the
reform methods of experimentation and trial and error are still very important . . .
no partial reform experiment can replace the top-level design of a new round of
reforms.”16 The introduction of top-level design has not been accompanied by
the complete abandonment of “feeling for stones” practices. Instead, the two op-
erate in tandem—as Xi Jinping has noted, “crossing the river by feeling for stones
and strengthening top-level design are dialectically uniﬁed.”17 In other words, the
current paradigm of policy promotion in China is a combination of top-down
and bottom-up approaches. For important policies, the central government will
ﬁrst issue a comprehensive blueprint; and it then leaves implementation to be
worked out by local governments. In the case of social credit, local governments


    15. “Di er pi shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi mingdan chulu” [The list of the second batch
of model cities for the construction of a social credit system is released], Sina, August 15, 2019, http://
ﬁnance.sina.com.cn/roll/2019-08-15/doc-ihytcern0934358.shtml, accessed November 5, 2020.
    16. Liu He, “Guanyu gaige zongti guihua dingceng sheji he zhongdian neirong” [About the top-level de-
sign and the key content of the reform master plan], Sina, May 20, 2011, http://ﬁnance.sina.com.cn/review
/sbzt/20110520/09059872522.shtml, accessed October 11, 2020. On this reform, see Gunter Schubert and
Björn Alpermann, “Studying the Chinese Policy Process in the Era of ‘Top-Level Design’: The Contribution
of ‘Political Steering’ Theory,” Journal of Chinese Political Science, no. 24 (2019): 199–224.
    17. People’s Daily Commentary Department, “Yao jiceng mosuo, yeyao dingceng sheji” [Exploration at
the grassroots level as well as top-level design is needed], Renmin wang [People’s Daily Net], January 8,
2013, http://theory.people.com.cn/BIG5/n/2013/0108/c40531-20126372.html, accessed October 10, 2020.
                                                                            Hobbling Big Brother      •   5


discovered during trials that the top-level design was not fully implementable, so
the policy is still in an experimental stage after a decade.

T H E S O C I A L C R E D I T S Y S T E M A N D M A I N TE N A N C E O F S T A B I L I T Y
In October 2011, Premier Wen Jiabao (温家宝) stated that he would “step up the
establishment and improvement of a credit information system covering the
whole society and increase the punishments for untrustworthy behavior.”18 In
2012, an Inter-Ministerial Joint Meeting for the Construction of a Social Credit
System was convened under the joint leadership (qiantou 牵头) of the National
Development and Reform Commission and the People’s Bank of China and at-
tended by 36 agencies that oversee banking, public ﬁnance, markets, enterprises,
quality inspection, transportation, and public security. In 2014, the State Coun-
cil’s Outline was issued, in which it was envisaged that the system would be fully
operational by 2020.
    The Outline divides the social credit system into four categories: “business in-
tegrity” (shangwu chengxin 商务诚信), “government integrity” (zhengwu chengxin
政务诚信), “judicial credibility” (sifa gongxin 司法公信), and “social integrity”
(shehui chengxin 社会诚信).19 The “government integrity” and “judicial credibil-
ity” aspects of the policy both target the internal workings of the public sector, the
former directed against government agencies and ofﬁcials, and the latter targeting
the procuratorate and other legal departments and their ofﬁcials. According to in-
formation we gathered from interviews, local governments have combined judicial
integrity and government integrity, so we too will treat these two as one category
in our discussion below.
    The “business integrity” aspect of social credit is aimed at business owners, who
are expected to ensure the quality of their products, such as not selling food that is
harmful to health, and not violating occupational and safety regulations at work-
places or being responsible for labor unrest. Another aspect of business integrity is
ensuring that the supply and sale of goods comply with market regulations. For
example, business owners should not jack up their prices and engage in proﬁteer-
ing. In recent years, discontent over the sale of fake products has been rising in
China.20 The Outline speciﬁes enhanced inspection for industries such as coal mines
or plants dealing with hazardous chemicals. It also calls for better quality controls
on consumer goods. Companies with defective production processes will lose

    18. “Wen Jiabao zhuchi zhaokai guowuyuan changwu huiyi, bushu zhiding shehui xinyong tixi jianshe
guihua” [Wen Jiabao presided over an executive meeting of the State Council to make arrangements for
the development of a social credit system plan], Zhongguo zhengfu menhu wangzhan [Chinese government
portal], October 19, 2011, http://www.gov.cn/ldhd/2011-10/19/content_1973304.htm.
    19. “Guowuyuan ‘shehui xinyong tixi jianshe guihua gangyao (2014–2020 nian).’”
    20. Yunxiang Yan, “Food Safety and Social Risk in Contemporary China,” The Journal of Asian Studies 71,
no. 3 (August 2012): 705–29.
6 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


credits and may even be blacklisted, as will ﬁrms that commit ﬁnancial crimes,
evade taxes, or jack up their prices.
    The main targets of “government integrity” are civil servants. This involves en-
suring that ofﬁcial information is shared and that the civil service is administered
according to the law. According to the Outline, it is necessary to enhance informa-
tion ﬂows within the government through the exchange of information among var-
ious units. One example is sharing information about court trials among the four
levels of courts across the country (central, provincial, municipal, and county). It
also includes the establishment of a “civil servant integrity ﬁle” (gongwuyuan cheng-
xin dangan 公务员诚信档案) to ensure that civil servants abide by the law in their
work. Local governments should publicize cases of dishonesty or dereliction of duty
by public servants and punish the wrongdoers. All of these practices are designed
to win public trust in the government.
    Finally, there is “social integrity,” which applies to the general public. In prac-
tice, local governments assign a “social credit code” (shehui xinyong daima 社会信
用代码) to each citizen to encourage them to do their best to “be good people”
(danghaoren 当好人) according to government-deﬁned indicators of good and
bad. People’s activities are recorded in their code, and their credit scores are calcu-
lated through various indicators. For example, by participating in social welfare
work,21 people reduce the burden on government services. If people take part in
illegal organizations, engage in antigovernment behavior, or spread rumors in the
media, including on the Internet, their credit scores will be reduced. Social credit
is important in various aspects of people’s lives. For example, people with higher
scores are supposed to ﬁnd it easier to obtain loans and when applying to good
schools, for jobs and for social security funding.
    How the three broad categories of the social credit system—business, govern-
ment, and social integrity—are supposed to contribute to the maintenance of social
stability is summarized in table 1. This summary is based upon our interpretation
of the contents of documents, interviews with ofﬁcials, and our observation of the
system’s implementation.

          T RI AL A ND E RR O R IN C IT Y Z: T H E P O LIT ICA L RI S K
                 O F I N N OV A T I O N FO R L O C A L O F F I C I A L S
The Outline, as a top-level design, provides only a rough framework for the devel-
opment of the social credit system and does not contain any speciﬁc regulations or
clear indicators. As with other central government policies, local governments are



    21. For the impact of charitable organizations, such as senior care institutions, on the maintenance of
social stability in China, see Yanhua Deng and Kevin J. O’Brien, “Societies of Senior Citizens and Popular
Protest in Rural Zhejiang,” China Journal, no. 71 (January 2014): 172–88.
                                                                              Hobbling Big Brother      •   7

Table 1. The Central Government’s Top-Level Design for the Social Credit System

                              Business Integrity         Government Integrity           Social Integrity
Main purpose                                Maintenance of social stability
Target               Business owners            Civil servants              General public
Meaning of integrity 1. Guaranteeing the        1. Ensuring the circu- 1. Ensuring that the
                        quality of goods            lation and sharing of      public obeys the
                     2. Ensuring that goods are     ofﬁcial information        law
                        supplied in line with   2. Ensuring that civil 2. Promoting social
                        market regulations          servants behave            harmony
                                                    honestly and comply
                                                    with the law
Main practices       1. Assigning scores to     1. Ensuring exchange 1. Assigning “social
                        businesses                  of information be-         credit codes”
                     2. Giving preferential         tween government 2. Establishing rating
                        treatment or rewards to     units                      indicators
                        businesses with higher 2. Establishing civil        3. Rewarding citizens
                        scores; punishing those     servant integrity ﬁles     who have higher
                        with lower scores        3. Rewarding civil ser-       scores and pun-
                                                    vants who achieve          ishing those who
                                                    higher credit scores       have lower scores
                                                    and punishing those
                                                    with lower scores



expected to ﬁll in the details in line with local circumstances (e.g., is an area rural or
urban) and local leaders’ preferences.22
   To implement the content of the Outline, almost all administrative regions
above the county level have established cross-departmental “social credit system
construction leading groups,” hereafter referred to as “leading groups” (lingdao
xiaozu 领导小组).23 The leading group of City Z, established in 2015, is headed
by the mayor.24 Its lead department is the Municipal Development and Reform
Commission, responsible for coordinating the responsible ofﬁcials of dozens of


    22. Susan Whiting, Power and Wealth in Rural China: The Political Economy of Institutional Change
(New York: Cambridge University Press, 2001).
    23. For discussion of the CCP’s leading groups, see Wen-Hsuan Tsai and Wang Zhou, “Integrated Frag-
mentation and the Role of Leading Small Groups in Chinese Politics,” China Journal, no. 82 (July 2019): 1–22.
    24. The secretary of the City Z Party committee does not play a formal part in the operations of the
leading group. However, the head of the leading group will ask the Party secretary for advice when a criti-
cal issue arises and the secretary will make the ﬁnal decision, according to a cadre working in the Big Data
Commission of City Z who was interviewed in November 2020.
8 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


bureaus, including the directors of the Civil Affairs Bureau, the Industrial and
Commercial Bureau, the Education Bureau, and the Finance Bureau. The lead-
ing group is administered by an ofﬁce within the Credit Department (xinyongchu
信用处) of the Development and Reform Commission.
   Since the transmission of information is a big part of the social credit system,
in 2016 City Z reorganized a Big Data Development Management Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the Big Data Commission) to handle this. City Z’s Big
Data Commission was originally just a “public institution” (shiye danwei 事业单位),
but its status was raised to that of an independent government unit in 2016.
   City Z’s Big Data Commission created an online platform at the end of 2017
for sharing information among participating government agencies.25 As of No-
vember 2020, 667 government units in City Z, including city-level departments
and counties or districts under the jurisdiction of the city, have uploaded data
onto this platform, which is closed off from public view. It includes, for example,
social security data from the Human Resources and Social Security Bureau and
data related to the construction industry from the Municipal Commission for
Housing and Urban-Rural Development.
   As an example of how this operates, after the outbreak of the coronavirus pan-
demic in 2020, in order to promote resumption of work and production ( fugong
fuchan 复工复产) in the quickest possible time, the Chinese government encour-
aged banks to speed up the approval of loans to corporations, especially to busi-
ness owners with a higher score for business integrity. In this platform’s data,
there are records of the relevant integrity of business owners. For instance, the
tax agency deposits data in the platform concerning whether business owners’ pay-
ment of taxes. The departments responsible for the loans to spur the resumption of
production—the Development and Reform Commission, and the China Banking
and Insurance Regulatory Commission—instructed the Big Data Commission to
submit the platform’s latest data on the business’ integrity to the two departments’
own databases for storage. When a bank receives a loan application, it is supposed
to request information from these two departments about the business integrity
scores of the applicant in deciding whether to issue the loan or not.26
   Similarly, after the outbreak of the coronavirus, in order to mete out rewards and
punishment, the public security bureaus of local governments imported informa-
tion into the platform about people who “spread rumors” online, which caused se-
rious deductions in the social credit scores of these people. When these people went
to government ofﬁces to get something done, once the clerk attending to them



    25. It is titled the Public Credit Information Sharing Platform ( gonggong xinyong xinxi gongxiang
pingtai 公共信用信息共享平台).
    26. Interview with a cadre working in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, Novem-
ber 5, 2020.
                                                                            Hobbling Big Brother      •   9


entered their names into the computer, the platform instantly highlighted their
“bad” record to the clerk, which might result in their failure to secure an application
or documents.27

              OFFICIALS’ BEHAVIOR UNDER THE STRATEGY
                        OF RIS K M INIM IZA T IO N
Of the three aspects of the social credit system, City Z has made the most progress
in relation to business integrity, followed by political integrity, and ﬁnally social
integrity. This can be observed with reference to the degree of political risk faced
by the ofﬁcials who are involved in the implementation of the system.28 Here, po-
litical risk refers to the possibility of punishment by an ofﬁcial’s superiors. Ofﬁ-
cials assess this risk with reference to their previous experience of implementing
innovative policies.29 In an authoritarian system, due to unclear norms and lack
of information, cadres can never be certain about the results of reforms; yet they
have no choice but to follow the principles of any innovative policy in order to
ensure their political security.30 The rational choice for local ofﬁcials is to try to
“increase [their] power of prediction when introducing innovations,”31 to mini-
mize the risk of incurring punishment.
    One way for ofﬁcials to minimize risk of innovation is to examine how pre-
vious policies have been implemented and learn from that experience. This can
explain why City Z has prioritized implementing a credit system for businesses
above other aspects of the social credit system. Measures to improve production
safety and improve the working of the market economy have been in place in
China for a long time, so local governments have many ready-made systems that
can be invoked.
    Political integrity is their number two priority, since the CCP has in the past
introduced some improvements to internal government information ﬂows and
the management of civil servants. So, the ofﬁcials in charge of implementing the
new credit system have some experience in investigating political integrity that



    27. Interview with a member of the Big Data Commission of City Z, October 20, 2020.
    28. For discussion of the relationship between reform and risk, see Wen-Hsuan Tsai and Nicola Dean,
“Experimentation under Hierarchy in Local Conditions: Cases of Political Reform in Guangdong and
Sichuan, China,” China Quarterly, no. 218 (June 2014): 342–46.
    29. It is up to cadres to decide what level of risk they are willing to incur in implementing reforms.
Some policy entrepreneurs are willing to take higher risks and promote innovation. See Yapeng Zhu, “Policy
Entrepreneurship, Institutional Constraints, and Local Policy Innovation in China,” China Review 13,
no. 2 (Fall 2013): 97–122.
    30. Ronald Wintrobe, The Political Economy of Dictatorship (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1998), 20–39.
    31. For a related discussion, see Frank H. Knight, Risk, Uncertainty, and Proﬁt (New York: Harper &
Row, 1971), 239.
10 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021




Figure 1. Implementation of the social credit system, City Z. This chart was prepared by the au-
thors and is not directly based on an ofﬁcial document.


they can apply to the social credit system.32 The ﬁnal aspect of the credit system
is social integrity, which applies to all of China’s adult citizens. Although this
aspect is directly related to the maintenance of social stability, it has been more
difﬁcult to implement as there were almost no systems or regulations in place
that could be adapted to deal with it.
   Figure 1 shows the framework for the implementation of the social credit sys-
tem and the progress thus far in City Z. This reﬂects how the cadres in charge of
implementation have been groping forward under the guidance of the central gov-
ernment’s framework while taking into consideration the political risks involved.
This situation is summarized in the following extract from an interview in Novem-
ber 2020 with a cadre from the city’s Development and Reform Commission:


    32. Nina P. Halpern, “Information Flows and Policy Coordination in the Chinese Bureaucracy,” in Bu-
reaucracy, Politics, and Decision Making in Post-Mao China, ed. Kenneth G. Lieberthal, and David M. Lampton
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992), 125–48; John P. Burns and Wang Xiaoqi, “Civil Service Re-
form in China: Impacts on Civil Servants’ Behaviour,” China Quarterly, no. 201 (March 2010): 58–78.
                                                                            Hobbling Big Brother      • 11


   Business integration currently takes the lead in the implementation of the social
   credit system. Because all places have to develop their economies, “credit” becomes
   a tool for strengthening the business environment.33 Although there has been ad-
   vances in measuring political integrity, there are still some difﬁculties. After all, de-
   partments tend to suffer from sectionalism, and we cannot interfere with some
   centrally and vertically managed systems. As for the scores for individuals (social
   credit), we’re very cautious. After all, categorizing people into different levels is sure
   to encounter great resistance. We’re still exploring how to do it and to what extent.



          T HE T HR E E C A T E G O R I E S O F C R E D I T E D I N TE G R I T Y
                                         Business Integrity
According to the central government’s top-level design, business integrity in-
volves the correct reporting of information or data by business owners during
the production process, including accurate declaration of business turnover, which
affects the amount of tax payable and, ultimately, the government’s revenues. In
addition, the government needs to know whether business owners have indulged
in illegal or dishonest practices in order to adjust their credit scores. In general,
City Z is scoring enterprises and handing out rewards and punishments based on
those scores.
   City Z has adopted “classiﬁed and hierarchical supervision” ( fenlei fenji jianguan
分类分级监管) for rating corporations, which means that each department of the
city government rates the companies in the area of business for which it is respon-
sible. For example, the Civil Affairs Bureau rates elderly-care institutions, the Edu-
cation Bureau rates training institutions, and the Commission for Housing and
Urban-Rural Development rates construction companies. In 2019, the Education
Bureau of City Z evaluated the integrity of private education and training institu-
tions’ ﬁnancial controls, teachers, and institutional management.
   The scoring process is divided into three steps, according to a November 2020
interview. For example, in the ﬁrst step the Education Bureau reviews the writ-
ten information provided by an institution, focusing on whether its ﬁnancial sit-
uation matches its tax payment, whether its insurance premium or the amount
of its Housing Provident Fund is consistent with its number of employees, and
whether the foreign teachers employed by an educational institution have the
necessary work and residence permits. In the second step, the Education Bureau
commissions the Ministry of Education to arrange for a team of experts to


    33. Although the creation of the credit system is supposed to help in the operation of corporations, the
rating indicators of the credit system focus on whether there are any violations of laws and breaches of reg-
ulations rather than on their operational situation.
12 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


conduct on-site inspections of institutions. These inspectors will talk to the heads
and employees of the institution to understand its operations, and then will rate
the enterprise. Finally, the City Z Education Bureau averages out the scores from
its paper-based assessment and those of the Ministry of Education inspectors and
award one of ﬁve ratings: AAA, AA, A, B, or unqualiﬁed. The province to which
City Z belongs adopted this “classiﬁed and hierarchical supervision” approach to
the management of food and drug safety as early as 2015; and City Z has followed
suit.34
    The frequency that a business owner is subject to being rated differs according
to the regulations of each department. For example, a rating for food safety occurs
once every season. Once a business has been assessed, business owners with higher
integrity scores are entitled to certain forms of preferential treatment. For exam-
ple, they can go through the “green channel” (lüse tong dao 绿色通道) when ap-
plying for loans, which means their applications will be approved more quickly.
The application procedures are also more convenient as they are only required
to complete a “credit promise form” (xinyong chengnuoshu 信用承诺书). Support-
ing documentation can be handed in after the application has been submitted.
Loan applications from business owners will low credit scores, however, will be
closely scrutinized, and the scores will affect whether the application will be suc-
cessful.35 In 2020, City Z joined together with several banks to launch an online
preferential loan (xinyidai 信易貸) scheme that allows companies to use their
“credits” as collateral when applying for bank loans. This is helpful for small and
micro business owners with good business integrity scores who do not have any
real estate to offer as collateral.36
    Businesses found guilty of serious malpractice are blacklisted on the Credit
China (xinyong zhongguo 信用中国) website. Such business owners are mostly
those who have been prosecuted for failing to pay wages, defaulting on their debts,
or committing other serious violations of the law. These people are restricted from
making major transportation purchases, such as airline or high-speed rail tickets,
and from staying in luxury hotels. Their children are barred from attending pri-
vate schools, as the school fees count as a major purchase. Some counties and dis-
tricts within City Z’s metropolitan area cooperate with telecom companies to
change the ring tone of the blacklisted business owner into “I’m a deadbeat”
(Wo shi laolai 我是老赖).37 This makes it difﬁcult for them to continue working


    34. “Fujian shixing shipin yaopin anquan xinyong fenji fenlei guanli” [Fujian trial implementation of
food and drug safety credit classiﬁcation management], Wenming Feng [Civilized], August 24, 2015, http://
wmf.fjsen.com/topic/2015-08/24/content_16532626.htm, accessed November 10, 2020.
    35. Interview with a cadre working in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, Novem-
ber 5, 2020.
    36. Interview with a member of the Big Data Commission of City Z, October 20, 2020.
    37. Interview with a staff member in the Development and Reform Commission of City W, Septem-
ber 23, 2020.
                                                                          Hobbling Big Brother     • 13


in the business world. The penalties imposed by City Z on blacklisted business
owners also include restrictions on remittances, imposed by the Foreign Exchange
Bureau; strict supervision of their imports and exports by customs authorities;
and a ban on registering national patents, imposed by the Intellectual Property
Bureau.38
    In general, the current trial of the business integrity aspect of the social credit
system in City Z has been successfully implemented. The Chinese government
has been monitoring businesses for many years, and the city has built on this
experience to devise a similar system to implement the new credit system. There
is a high degree of public support for this.39 Some local ofﬁcials also favor it. City Z
must compete with other cities in China’s eastern coastal region, and ofﬁcials
said that monitoring business integrity through the social credit system im-
proves the city’s business environment. An ofﬁcial interviewed for this study in
November 2020 observed, “In the new credit-based monitoring model, credit is
an important tool for the business environment. Credit must serve economic
development.”

                                        Political Integrity
The political integrity aspect of the credit system is targeted at improving the
personal ethics of civil servants, to incentivize them to share ofﬁcial information,
to act in accordance with regulations and the law, and to behave honestly. How-
ever, we have discovered the effectiveness of this system is limited.
   As of November 2020, 667 units in the city had uploaded data to the infor-
mation sharing platform amounting to 1.26 billion items.40 Civil servants are
free to use this information to improve administrative efﬁciency. Nationally, reg-
ulations concerning a similar system were issued by the State Council in 2017,
which provides a direct precedent that City Z could draw upon to build the
new platform.41 However, the city has encountered two challenges in promoting
the sharing of ofﬁcial data. First, it is difﬁcult to share all data, because it involves
both vertically managed (tiaotiao 条条) and horizontally managed (kuaikuai 块块)
departments. For example, institutions such as the People’s Bank, the customs au-
thority, the tax ofﬁce, and the courts, among others, come under the jurisdiction


    38. Interview with a cadre working in the Big Data Commission of City Z, November 5, 2020.
    39. Genia Kosta, “China’s Social Credit Systems and Public Opinion: Explaining High Levels of Ap-
proval,” New Media & Society, forthcoming, https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1461444819826402,
accessed October 11, 2020.
    40. Author’s ﬁeld notes, an internal document of City Z, November, 2020.
    41. “Guanyu yinfa zhengwu zixun xitong zhenghe gongyong shishi fangan de tongzhi” [Notice on issu-
ing the implementation plan for the integration and sharing of government information systems] Zhong-
guo Zhengfu wang [China Government Net], May 3, 2017, http://www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2017
/content_5197010.htm, accessed November 12, 2020.
14 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


of their corresponding central and provincial systems. If these higher-level au-
thorities are unwilling to release data, City Z’s government has no power to order
them to do so. For example, the City Z courts come under the jurisdiction of
higher-level courts, so they are not required to pass information to the City Z gov-
ernment, with the exception of important cases that have attracted public atten-
tion in the outside world.42 In these circumstances, if local leaders need to access
data, they must ﬁrst negotiate with the higher-level unit. Once they have obtained
the higher-level unit’s agreement, they must submit a request for information.43
    Departments such as the Public Security Bureau or the Development and Re-
form Commission come under the leadership of the City Z government, so in-
formation sharing is much simpler. However, such departments are not always
willing to share their information with other units. When it conducted the most
recent census, the City Statistics Bureau found no information on the platform
from the Public Security Bureau, which was not willing to upload it. Similar sit-
uations often occur, and the city leaders must themselves enforce and coordinate
the uploading of information. The city’s Development and Reform Commission
is the lead department for the credit system, and the leading group’s ofﬁce is lo-
cated within the Commission’s Credit Department; but it has no authority over
vertically managed units nor does it have sufﬁcient staff or resources to carry out
its duties properly. Thus it is difﬁcult for the Commission to effectively control
the implementation of the social credit system.44
    The second task of the political integrity aspect of social credit concerns the
conduct of civil servants. An evaluation system for civil servants already exists at
all levels of government in China. In City Z, this was put in place as early as
2007, covering personal morality, ability, performance, and integrity. The Out-
line’s requirement that “integrity ﬁles” be kept on all civil servants also overlaps
with the system of personnel ﬁles held by the city government’s Organization
Department. In short, the city barely needed to adapt existing practices to abide
by the Outline.45


                                        Social Integrity
The Outline envisages that the government will issue each ordinary member of
the public with a social credit score according to whether they abide by the law



    42. Interview with a staff member in the Development and Reform Commission of City W, Septem-
ber 23, 2020.
    43. A staff member in the Development and Reform Commission of City Q, October 17, 2020.
    44. Interview with an ofﬁcial in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, November 5,
2020.
    45. Ibid.
                                                                       Hobbling Big Brother    • 15


and contribute to social harmony. People with high credit scores enjoy prefer-
ential treatment, while those with low scores are punished. However, due to the
lack of existing systems to which they can refer, the City Z authorities are still
at the trial-and-error stage in the operation of this aspect of the social credit
system.
    The Outline proposes that each Chinese citizen be assigned a “social credit
code.” However, this is tantamount to issuing every adult in the city with a second
national ID card that is incompatible with the original ID system. Since the cost
and risks involved in this innovation are high, City Z continues to use the existing
ID code to track people’s behavior. Everyone is scored in six categories: personal
credit, public credit, professional credit, ﬁnancial credit, administrative credit,
and judicial credit. Personal credit refers to the score of a person’s socioeconomic
status. In general, City Z will award a higher score to citizens with higher educa-
tion levels and income. Public credit refers to the good and bad records of a per-
son in the public sphere; extra credit points could be awarded for participating in
charity services, whereas credit points are deducted for not obeying trafﬁc rules.
Professional credit refers to the reward or penalty given by an organization to a
person in light of their performance in the workplace (danwei 单位). Financial
credit refers to a person’s ﬁnancial condition; for example, a person severely in
debt will have points deducted. Administrative credit refers to whether a person
has been punished by administrative departments. Finally, judicial credit refers
to whether a person has been sentenced in court. Each category contains many
subindicators, a total of 189 indicators altogether.46
    The relevant departments are responsible for recording people’s scores and
passing them on to the Big Data Commission. Departments involved in the scor-
ing of professional credit, for example, include the Taxation Bureau, the Human
Resources and Social Security Bureau, and the Provident Fund Management
Center. Each of these agencies designs an index to add and subtract credit scores.
If people are rated as model workers or are awarded medals for their professional
performance, they will earn extra points. For example, doctors and nurses who
volunteered to go to Wuhan or other cities to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic
had 30–50 points added to their professional credit scores. Points are deducted if
people commit crimes such as tax evasion or insurance fraud.47
    City Z has been rating its citizens since 2018. Currently points tend to be
added to people’s scores rather than being deducted. Each person starts with
550 points, and the maximum number of points they can achieve is 1,000. A score
above 650 is considered good.48 In City Z, anyone with more than 686 points

   46. Interview with an ofﬁcial in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, November 5,
2020.
   47. Interview with a cadre working in the Big Data Commission of City Z, November 5, 2020.
   48. Interview with a staff member in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, October 14,
2020.
16 •    T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021

           Table 2. The Distribution of Social Integrity Scores in City Z

           Social Credit Score                Credit Rating          Number of People
           850–1,000                      Extremely excellent                0
           750–849                             Excellent                    462
           650–749                              Good                     6,892,409
           550–649                             Average                     8,242
           350–549                               Poor                     13,448
           ! 349                                 Bad                         3
             Total                                                       6,914,564
              Source: Internal data of City Z, November 5, 2020.



enjoys preferential treatment in terms of transportation, education, book bor-
rowing, and travel. They receive a 20 percent discount on subway tickets, may defer
payment of tuition fees, and do not have to pay a deposit to borrow library books.
Those with scores below 550 who are guilty of major violations of the law may be
blacklisted on the Credit China website, which will restrict their actions and their
opportunities for consumption.
   Table 2 shows the distribution of social credit scores among approximately
6.91 million citizens over the age of 18 with household registrations in City Z.
As many as 99 percent of the citizens have scores in excess of 550. Almost all
of them are categorized as having “good credit,” with only about 1 percent clas-
siﬁed as “average” and less than 0.1 percent as “excellent.” Only a handful of con-
victed criminals score below 549.
   However, during our research, we found that people do not seem to under-
stand this set of scores, or even know that their behavior is being rated by the
government. Most said that the social credit system had no impact on their lives.
Take discounted subway tickets, for example. Anyone who uses City Z’s phone
app can obtain discounts; there is no need to win them through credit scores.49
City Z is not alone in this. People in the model city of Rongcheng also have little
understanding of the social integrity system.50
   We speculate from our interviews and related data that City Z has so far not
dared to disclose the details of the personal social credit system to the public; it
has instead “rigged” the system to satisfy the requirements of its superiors. In
fact, no rewards or penalties have yet been handed out. As a city ofﬁcial told
us, “dividing the people into different levels will deﬁnitely cause protests. The



    49. Interview with a citizen of City Z, October 15, 2020.
    50. Interview with a member of the production team from German C Media, ﬁlming the documentary
Social Credit System, Taipei, September 27, 2020.
                                                                            Hobbling Big Brother      • 17


risk involved in forcing these policies is too great.”51 The city of Suzhou intro-
duced a personal credit scoring system in September 2020, the Suzhou Civiliza-
tion Code, which had to be withdrawn three days after it was launched due to a
public backlash and media criticism.52 When a local government has no speciﬁc
experience or similar system to which it can refer, ofﬁcials must be very careful
to minimize the risk of provoking public protests.
   In these circumstances, one can understand why ofﬁcials in City Z are reluctant
to deduct points for poor social integrity and only add points instead. City Z knows
that it needs to make announcements about the system to the public in the near
future, and it aims to start by giving people points to encourage them to demon-
strate social integrity in order to obtain rewards. If this trial implementation goes
well, the authorities will start deducting point for bad behavior and handing out
punishments. The 189 indicators and scores have largely been designed to satisfy
the requirements of the Outline; but many of them require further consideration.
For example, an ofﬁcial in the city’s Development and Reform Commission com-
mented that some farmers may never have needed to borrow money from a bank,
so their “ﬁnancial credit” scores cannot be calculated.

                                           CONCLU SION
Our investigations in City Z reveal that the city’s ofﬁcials are doing all they can
to minimize the political risk involved in the implementation of the credit sys-
tems.53 The top-level design represented by the Outline indicates that the credit
system should cover the areas of business integrity, political integrity, and social
integrity, but did not provide any clear indication of how the system should be
implemented. The requirements for giving every adult citizen a social credit code
and handing out rewards and punishments according to their social credit scores
have no precedent in China. To create a new system is risky, which is why, as this
article has shown, social credit for the general public has lagged behind the credit
system for business and civil servants.
   Political risk in this article mainly refers to the price cadres may have to pay if
introducing an innovation. For example, a cadre may be demoted or dismissed for
formulating an overly “bold” strategy without any palpable results. The political



    51. Interview with a cadre working in the Development and Reform Commission of City Z, Novem-
ber 5, 2020.
    52. “Suzhou wenming ma shijian: Zhongguo ‘heijing’ mengxiang de shehui jifen weihe zongbuhang”
[Suzhou civilization code incident: Why the social points of China’s “Black Mirror” dream always fail],
United News Network, September 8, 2020, https://global.udn.com/global_vision/amp/story/8664/4844171,
accessed October 11, 2020.
    53. For a related discussion, see Jack S. Levy, “Prospect Theory, Rational Choice, and International Re-
lations,” International Studies Quarterly 41, no. 1 (March 1997): 87–112.
18 •     T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021

Table 3. Handling Political Risk by Ofﬁcials Involved in the Credit Systems

Type Content                    Business Integrity         Government Integrity             Social Integrity
Existing system that          Credit rating regula-       Relevant regulations on         Hardly any
  can act as reference          tions in related            information sharing
                                ﬁelds                     Cadre personnel ﬁles
Difﬁculty                     Less                        Vertical and horizon-           Hardly any sys-
                                                            tal management                  tems to refer to
                                                            relationship
Political risk                Low                         Medium                          Extremely high
Effectiveness                 High                        Medium                          Low


behaviors of cadres are based on rational calculations.54 The Outline handed
down by the central government required all regions to complete constructing
and implementing the credit systems by 2020.55 Under the stipulations of the
mandate, regional and local ofﬁcials must carry out this task so as to avoid being
seen by their superiors as not obeying the instructions of the central government.
Yet the requirements of the central government’s top-level design were not pre-
cise, so to reduce the risk posed by innovation, ofﬁcials took their reference as
far as possible from existing related regulations. Table 3 shows this mentality of
the cadres.
   In the three categories of business, government, and social integrity, the less
that existing systems can be used as a precedent that can be followed, the greater
the difﬁculty and risk for cadres in introducing an innovation and thus the greater
the reluctances to actually implement the new measures. For example, as has been
discussed, there are no related regulations to refer to regarding how to mete out
rewards and penalties based on the social integrity scores of local citizens. So the
ofﬁcials of City Z establish the social integrity credit scores for all adults simply
to satisfy their superiors, but they did not disclose the scores to the public, nor mete
out the corresponding rewards and punishments. As a result, the effectiveness of
implementation was extremely poor.
   The CCP had hoped to improve the residual effects of “feeling for stones”
in policy-making by means of developing a longer-term “top-level design.” It

    54. This sometimes also entails deliberately taking on risk rather than avoidance. For example, Party of-
ﬁcials sometimes allow media supervision and criticism, but their purpose is not to improve freedom of the
press but may rather be premised on an attempt to pressure their subordinates into carrying out a policy
through media pressure and public opinion. In other words, the risk of media criticism can be a price these
ofﬁcials are willing to pay in order to fulﬁll a policy that furthers their career. See Dan Chen, “‘Supervision
by Public Opinion’ or by Government Ofﬁcials? Media Criticism and Central-Local Government Relations
in China,” Modern China 43, no. 6 (2017): 620–45.
    55. For discussion of the “rule of mandates” in the CCP system, see Mayling Birney, “Decentralization
and Veiled Corruption Under China’s ‘Rule of Mandates,’ ” World Development 53 ( January 2014): 55–67.
                                                                           Hobbling Big Brother     • 19


seemed apparent to the top leadership that the “feeling for stones” approach since
the 1980s had become increasingly problematic as China entered a new century.
The practice whereby each individual department devised its own systems had led
to a rather serious situation of “fragmented authoritarianism,” which runs con-
trary to Xi Jinping’s attempt to integrate the interests of the various parts of the
bureaucracy to limit this fragmentation.56 The top-level design method used by
the CCP since 2011 to replace the feeling for stones approach provides a blueprint
from which local ofﬁcials can devise more detailed policies. But there is always
tension between the policy framework decided at the center and local realities.
Since local ofﬁcials always have to keep one eye on the reaction of their superi-
ors,57 they can only feel their way forward while seeking to minimize their expo-
sure to political risk.
    Under these circumstances, when faced with a new national program to install
credit systems, local ofﬁcials have been more willing to promote those aspects of
the top-level design with which they are familiar and that are therefore less risky.
But they have been loath to touch the personal social credit system that the re-
gime is trying to install to enforce social stability. At a time when Xi Jinping has
imposed so many restrictions, they fear popular unrest and invoking the wrath
of their superiors if they introduce any unpopular innovations; and they know that
following a well-trodden path is the easiest way to avoid punishment.58 This po-
litical atmosphere helps explain why the results of local trials of the political and
personal social credit systems have so far not been successful.
    As we have observed, the business integrity aspect of the credit system involves
rating companies according to the safety of their products and their level of com-
pliance with market regulations—a type of monitoring with which local ofﬁcials
are familiar. China also already has systems for promoting information sharing
among government units and for rating the conduct of civil servants, so ofﬁcials
can refer to these when they are implementing this aspect of the credit system,
but efforts have been seriously hampered by a lack of cooperation among a range
of vertically and horizontally managed organizations. The personal credit system
for all of China’s adult citizens is a novel scheme, and potentially very unpopular,
and so it is no wonder that local ofﬁcials are worried that implementing personal



    56. Kjeld Erik Brødsgaard, “Fragmented Authoritarianism or Integrated Fragmentation?” in Chinese
Politics as Fragmented Authoritarianism: Earthquakes, Energy and Environment, ed. Kjeld Erik Brødsgaard
(New York: Routledge, 2017), 38–55.
    57. Shiuh-Shen Chien, “Local Responses to Globalization in China: A Territorial Restructuring Process
Perspective,” Paciﬁc Economic Review 13, no. 4 (2008): 508–9.
    58. Wang Tao, “Zhaozhun wenti yuantou, genzhi ‘lanzheng daizheng’” [Identify the source of the prob-
lem and cure the cadres’ “indolence, sloppiness, and neglect of their duties”], Renmin wang [People’s Daily
Online], August 30, 2016, http://dangjian.people.com.cn/n1/2016/0830/c117092-28676535.html, accessed
November 12, 2020.
20 •   T H E C H I N A J O U R N A L , No. 86, July 2021


social credit will cross an invisible line drawn by their superiors and they will be
punished. Therefore, progress in this area is extremely limited.
    Our conclusions regarding City Z may not necessarily apply to all counties
and cities in China. Some local governments might have received more support
from their superiors and as a result may have made a breakthrough in imple-
menting the personal social credit system. However, we believe City Z does re-
ﬂect the rational choices made by most cities in China’s eastern coastal region
regarding the social credit system, since they are under pressure to advance eco-
nomic development and to minimize their own political risk. The regime under
Xi Jinping seems intent on continuing its efforts to set up a comprehensive sys-
tem for monitoring all aspects of society. However, given local cadres’ awareness
of the political risks involved, it may be a long time before the national author-
ities achieve that goal.
Copyright of China Journal is the property of The Australian National University and its
content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the
copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email
articles for individual use.
