2025/12/20 17:13                                     How China's 'social credit' system blocked millions of people from travelling | CBC Radio

        Menu                                                                                                                              Search    Sign In


                           The Current

                           How China's 'social credit' system blocked
                           millions of people from travelling
                           People can also earn themselves off the blacklist, legal expert says
                           CBC Radio · Posted: Mar 07, 2019 3:45 PM EST | Last Updated: March 8, 2019




                           Passengers wait in lines to board their train at a railway station in Hefei, Anhui province Jan. 6, 2012. Last year
                           millions of ticket sales were blocked because the buyers had low scores under China's 'social credit' system.
                           (REUTERS)


                                                             comments

                           Read Story Transcript

                           Millions of people were blocked from buying airline tickets or booking train journeys in
                           China last year after being blacklisted under the country's controversial "social credit"
                           system.

                           The National Public Credit Information Center revealed in its annual report that people
                           with low scores had been blocked from buying airline tickets 17.5 million times in
                           2018, according to the Associated Press.

                           People were barred from buying train tickets 5.5 million times, and 128 people were
                           blocked from leaving the country due to unpaid taxes, the report said. Additionally,
                           there were 290,000 instances where a person's low score stopped them from getting a
                           senior management job or acting as a company's legal representative.

                           "If you're on one of these blacklists, you are barred from buying luxury goods on some
                           of China's online shopping platforms, you can't buy a plane ticket, you can't get a
                           mortgage," said Nathan Vanderklippe, the Globe and Mail's Asia correspondent.




https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-march-7-2019-1.5046443/how-china-s-social-credit-system-blocked-millions-of-people-from-travelling-1.50…   1/5
2025/12/20 17:13                                   How China's 'social credit' system blocked millions of people from travelling | CBC Radio




                           A report from the National Public Credit Information Center revealed that 128 people were blocked from leaving
                           the country in 2018, due to unpaid taxes. (Chiang Ying-ying/The Associated Press)



                           "In some places, if you are on this blacklist, there's been experiments where the
                           government will automatically change your cellphone ringtone," he told The Current's
                           Anna Maria Tremonti.

                           "So if your friends call you, instead of hearing a phone ringing, they get a message
                           saying this person's on the blacklist, as a method of public shaming."

                           Originally conceived in the 1990s, the Chinese government has been experimenting
                           with the current form of the social credit system since 2014. Citizens have points
                           deducted from their score for breaking the law or more minor offences like walking a
                           dog without a leash. Currently, the system is only in effect in certain areas, run by local
                           officials. But the Chinese government wants to have it implemented across the whole
                           country by 2020.

                                 'It's like Christmas for repressive regimes': China is selling surveillance
                                 technology all over the world

                           While a low score can limit your chances of getting a government job, Vanderklippe
                           pointed out that under the system, citizens also receive rewards for good behaviour.

                           "You can earn points for example by volunteering, perhaps by donating blood, by doing
                           things that are considered pro-social," he said.

                           That could result in financial advantages like lower heating bills, or perks and bonuses
                           when booking hotels, he said.




https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-march-7-2019-1.5046443/how-china-s-social-credit-system-blocked-millions-of-people-from-travelling-1.50…   2/5
2025/12/20 17:13                                   How China's 'social credit' system blocked millions of people from travelling | CBC Radio




                           Critics of system say it's an invasive form of government repression and surveillance. (Andy Wong/The
                           Associated Press)



                           Social credit scores have 'been very effective'
                           Human Rights Watch has called the system an attempt by Chinese authorities to
                           "create a reality in which bureaucratic pettiness could significantly limit people's
                           rights," but one legal expert says those fears are overblown.

                           "I understand why people worry about this because it does seem like a big overreach,
                           collecting these massive amounts of data," said Jamie Horsley, senior fellow and
                           lecturer at Yale Law School's Paul Tsai China Center.

                                 How the arrest of 5 Chinese women galvanized the country's feminist
                                 movement

                           "It clearly could be abused. I mean, we all worry about the privacy issues," she told
                           Tremonti.

                           "But this system doesn't just sweep in all kinds of information. It has to be that there
                           has been a fine imposed, or a court judgment, and information about that specific act
                           gets put in the system."




https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-march-7-2019-1.5046443/how-china-s-social-credit-system-blocked-millions-of-people-from-travelling-1.50…   3/5
2025/12/20 17:13                                    How China's 'social credit' system blocked millions of people from travelling | CBC Radio




                              Exporting dystopia: China’s social credit system | The Weekly
                                   October 8, 2018 | 7:12


                           China’s social credit system gives the state the power to monitor every move, of every citizen. The system links
                           footage from 200 million closed circuit TV cameras with people’s personal data, letting the state rank its citizens
                           based on their private lives.

                           She pointed out that the system has encouraged people to obey the law, and pay fines
                           promptly when there are infractions.

                           "It's ... been very effective, and one thing that never seems to be reported is that people
                           are getting off the blacklist as well as being put on them," she said.

                           "So something seems to be working."


                           System may never be fully implemented, says academic
                           While the west may view the social credit system "as a form of state repression tool,"
                           Lynette Ong argued that view isn't shared everywhere in China.

                           "From the Chinese perspective … they see this as a form of social management," said
                           Ong, associate professor of political science at the University of Toronto.

                                 Facial recognition technology is tracking billions in China. Could it happen
                                 here?

                           In China, which has a population of almost 1.4 billion, there is "very low trust among
                           strangers, much lower than in our society," she told Tremonti.


                                              [It's] a way to collect data and
                                              build a database, for people to
                                              be discerning of who is actually
                                              trustworthy.
                                              - Lynette Ong

                           "I think they see [the] social credit system as a way to collect data and build a
                           database, for people to be discerning of who is actually trustworthy," she said.

                           However, Ong suggested that the system may be impossible to implement across a
                           country as vast as China.

https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-march-7-2019-1.5046443/how-china-s-social-credit-system-blocked-millions-of-people-from-travelling-1.50…   4/5
2025/12/20 17:13                                   How China's 'social credit' system blocked millions of people from travelling | CBC Radio
                           "With slowing growth in China, this needs a lot of resources to fully implement this.
                           And where is the money coming from? I think people are going to question whether it
                           is OK to spend so much money in social credit."

                           Click 'listen' near the top of the page to hear the full conversation.


                           Written by Padraig Moran. Produced by Jessica Linzey.


                           Popular Now in Radio
                           1 Dec 20: Whales, sex, and rocks — it's our holiday book show!
                           2 She went to Germany for a new brain cancer treatment. She wonders why she had to learn about it
                             online

                           3 The best Canadian books of 2025             4 IDEAS
                                                                             The 'dangerous' promise of a techno-utopian future

                           5 TRANSCRIPTS
                               TRANSCRIPT: Missing & Murdered - Season 2, EP 10




                           TRENDING VIDEOS



                                                 2:19                                0:55                          2:05                             4:07


                           VIDEO                            VIDEO                            VIDEO                             VIDEO                           VIDE
                           Alberta winter storm leads to    Dozens of drivers stuck on       What we know about the            'We were close to an            #Th
                           80-100 vehicle traffic pileup    highway near Airdrie, Alta.,     Bondi Beach hero                  agreement' with U.S., says      out i
                                                            amid snowstorm                                                     Carney when asked about         the N
                                                                                                                               Ontario's anti-tariff ad


                           The National                                                      The National                      Politics News                   The


                           RECOMMENDED FOR YOU                                                                                         ?




                           The 1st tranche of Epstein       Highway 3 between                Akwesasne parents outraged        Invasive sport fish being       B.C.
                           files have been released.        Princeton and Hope, B.C.,        after photos circulate of         released into Cultus Lake,      rese
                           Here's what we've learned        will stay closed for several     'time out box' in school          B.C.: officials                 cam
                                                            weeks


                                                            Jacqueline Gelineau                                                                                Clair
                           John Paul Tasker                 News - Canada -                  Candace Maracle                   News - Canada -                 New
                           News - World                     British Columbia                 News - Indigenous                 British Columbia                Briti




https://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-march-7-2019-1.5046443/how-china-s-social-credit-system-blocked-millions-of-people-from-travelling-1.50…     5/5
