      Journal of Chinese Governance




      ISSN: 2381-2346 (Print) 2381-2354 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/rgov20




Introduction: Chinese governance in the era of
                  1
‘top-level design’

Anna L. Ahlers (Guest editor)

To cite this article: Anna L. Ahlers (Guest editor) (2018) Introduction: Chinese governance
                                 1
in the era of ‘top-level design’ , Journal of Chinese Governance, 3:3, 263-267, DOI:
10.1080/23812346.2018.1487738

To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/23812346.2018.1487738




       Published online: 28 Aug 2018.



       Submit your article to this journal



       Article views: 3626



       View related articles



       View Crossmark data



       Citing articles: 19 View citing articles




                      Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
             https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=rgov20
JOURNAL OF CHINESE GOVERNANCE
2018, VOL. 3, NO. 3, 263–267
https://doi.org/10.1080/23812346.2018.1487738


EDITORIAL

Introduction: Chinese governance in the era
of ‘top-level design’1


Since Xi Jinping took over at the helm of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), observers
have noted tremendous changes in the structure and operations of the Chinese political
system. Reconfigurations of central-local state relations, the shift to a more top-down (‘top-
level design’) and tighter mode of rule, the emergence of Xi as the ‘core leader’, the
enforced anti-corruption campaign, the intensification of ideological propaganda and train-
ing, systematic intimidation and censorship, grid systems of community control, and other
features, are seen as strongly reminiscent of traditional traits of rule, which were thought
to have vanished during the era of reform. At the same time, for many observers, the intro-
duction of ever more comprehensive IT-based social governance and monitoring tools,
reforms that target market mechanisms and the legal system, and the expansion of public
deliberation and consultation, bespeak the modern and innovative features of Chinese gov-
ernance.2 And yet, some very new signals have also emerged, mainly pertaining to policy
fields, for instance, the political leadership’s new firm commitment to an ‘ecological civi-
lization’ and green growth, clearer target-based strategies in the international system of
science, and new, more assertive activities in the foreign policy realm, such as the Belt and
Road Initiative, the manifestations of claims to the South China Sea, and ventures into the
Arctic and outer space.
    With a particular focus on modes of governance and the design of the policy process,
analysts seem to agree, almost unanimously, that what we have seen evolving over the
past five years and what is officially promulgated as ‘top-level design’ by the CCP leader-
ship, is a trend towards centralization, or re-centralization. The increased streamlining of
policy formulation and monitoring as embodied by the new leading small groups for the
‘comprehensive deepening of reforms’ at every level of the state hierarchy, with less discre-
tion being allowed for the local adjustment of policies and curtailed open experimentation,
various means of firmer top-down cadre management and discipline control, the tighten-
ing up of intergovernmental financing, and many other components of the apparently new
governance strategy, seem to imply that we can say goodbye, for now, to the era of
decentralization, sometimes called quasi-‘federalism’ by some scholars of Chinese politics.3
Moreover, debates are taking place on whether this shift entails the old paradigm of ‘cyclic
changes’ of power contraction and enforced top-down steering in Chinese politics4—or
‘crisis mode’ as it has also been called before5—or whether, on the contrary, it rather rep-
resents an on-going evolutionary process of learning and adjusting.6
    Complementing these macro analyses, in order to grasp the recurrent and changing fea-
tures of Chinese governance over time as well as to gauge their effects, new efforts in
empirical research and more meticulous analyses are needed. The contributions in this spe-
cial issue adopt a close-up perspective to examine the particularities of current Chinese
governance. Each expert or team of experts working in a relevant field has mapped out a
policy field, explored a governance technique and style, or traced cases of institutional
reform, in order to examine the continuities and changes observable over the last decade.
Overall, this special issue aims to deal with two main questions:
264     A. L. AHLERS


 What, from an overarching viewpoint, is really old or new in the governance patterns
  since the leadership change in 2013, and what are the implications of these develop-
  ments? Has governance in China really changed since Xi Jinping came to power? And if
  it has, what are the appropriate terms for describing what we have observed?
 Even if one can agree that this era is characterized by a more top-down, centralized
  governance style, in what way does this affect our understanding of the hallmarks of
  Chinese politics today? Does it imply, for instance, less differentiation (with regard to
  party–government relations, or the integration of the government, the business and the
  civic sectors, or the governance of societal groups, for instance) than what was present
  in previous eras in China? A real alteration in delicate central-local relations? More inclu-
  sion or more exclusion of the public in the policy process? A retraction or expansion of
  addressees included by policies and their outcomes?

   Furthermore, each individual article examines the specific features and the actual effects
of current governance patterns in China. Questions reflected upon in the various contribu-
tions include:

 Can we observe tangible changes in macro concepts and notions constitutive for
  Chinese politics and modes of governance; for example, nation, state, government/gov-
  ernance, ideology, welfare, justice, etc.?
 How palpable and significant is the new ‘top-level design’ in certain policy fields? Do
  we see shifts in content and style?
 Do they actually pervade the whole political system and do they reach down to the
  bottom, i.e. the local level, where reforms and campaigns are implemented and differ-
  ent actors and interests come together?
 Are changes also tangible in the public reactions to these trends and potentially chang-
  ing demands for policies or governance modes?
 And, finally, can we already assess whether the newly employed governance features
  are effective or obstructive with regard to reaching the desired outcomes?


Spotlights on governance in the era of ‘top-level design’ featured in this
special issue
In her comprehensive reflections on the grammar of Chinese governance, Vivienne Shue
discusses concepts such as party-state, nation and empire, to make sense of the political
entity that modern China has become and the extent to which this is interrelated with
China’s features of rule. Moreover, for scholars interested in related questions, Shue actually
suggests an approach that differs from the usual democracy-autocracy bifurcation in com-
parative political studies. In her view, empire, particularly in the understanding of the term
and its consequences as it has been perceived in recent historical research, can serve as a
fruitful concept that can help to further our understanding of Chinese governance. Shue
claims that the template of governance under empire has remained a defining element in
the basic grammar of current Chinese governance. In her study, she takes us through
some of the determining political choices made, the practices adopted, and the social tra-
jectories pursued, which have resulted in this continuity, and looks, in particular, at several
techniques of governance associated with empire that are related to scale and strategy, as
well as to hierarchy and differentiation. Not least, Shue discusses what this empire-inspired
grammar of governance means for our understanding of the governance of China’s foreign
relations in recent years.
                                                        JOURNAL OF CHINESE GOVERNANCE       265


   The party leadership’s understanding of a regime’s collapse, such as the one that ended
the Soviet Union, has to be avoided at any cost in China, is a thread that connects
Vivienne Shue’s reflections of Chinese modern political history with Chen Xuelian’s study
on what counts in the internal make-up of Chinese governance concepts under ‘top-level
design’. In her article on the ideological responsibility system used for the management of
China’s vast body of cadres, Chen traces the contents and characteristics of political
streamlining and evaluation over the past four decades. She finds that cadre management
in the ‘New Era’ stands out because of the recent intensification of ideological steering and
the stronger focus on loyalty to the central Party leadership. This differs from earlier eras
when cadres, by both education and evaluation, were much more encouraged to experi-
ment with (and adjust) policies and politics locally, and when classic political ideology
(Marxism-Leninism, Maoism, etc.) was relatively toned down and often gave way to more
technocratic guidelines, such as training in local finances or media work/public relations.
Finally, Chen considers the ways in which this could influence modes of current
Chinese governance.
   China’s very own path, in comparison to other countries with a Soviet-style regime past,
again features as a topic in Neil Munro’s article about notions of market justice in China
and Russia. Based on a comparative literature review and an analysis of focus group discus-
sions, Munro shows that a combination of subjective economic dissatisfaction, left-leaning
political ideology and shock events help explain the demand for both income equality and
state welfare provision in both countries. Altogether, he finds that the Chinese, in general,
have more nuanced distributive justice attitudes than the Russians, in that they tend to
view responsibility for welfare as shared between the state and individuals rather than as
the exclusive domain of one or the other.
   This, of course, has major implications for welfare governance and the above view indeed
seems to be reflected in the design of the Chinese government’s contemporary welfare poli-
cies. Edward Gu reviews China’s health insurance reforms and the government’s stated goals
of universal coverage, improved benefit design, and smart payment methods. He finds that,
although the government in 2011 announced that 95 percent coverage has been achieved
for its social health insurance (SHI) schemes, other data sources have revealed less smooth
and effective implementation with the result that universal coverage still remains an unfin-
ished task. Gu therefore also comments on the governance features that are still needed in
order to ensure the effective working of welfare policies with ‘top-level design’.
   Finally, Yongdong Shen and Anna L. Ahlers analyze a case of local environmental govern-
ance innovation in Hangzhou City. Under the aegis of the central government’s new environ-
mental policies since the 2010s, and especially the air pollution action plan of 2014 and the
new environmental law of 2015, the status of the local Environmental Protection Bureaus
(EPB), in general, has been strengthened. Shen and Ahlers describe a case in which this
enabled the EPB in Hangzhou to test an innovative communication mechanism in order to
solve a longstanding and stalemated conflict over industrial air pollution between community
residents, the polluting enterprises and the local authorities. These trust-building measures
eventually led to the successful enforcement of air pollution regulation. Although aware of
the limitations of this case study, Shen and Ahlers discuss the impact that new centralized
environmental policy-making in China may have on modes of local governance.


Preliminary conclusions
Systematically illuminating, sometimes even questioning the corridor between old and new
traits of governance in China, as well as their respective effects, the studies in this special
266      A. L. AHLERS


issue, diverse as they are, all contain a common message: There have been notable
changes in the notions and perceptions of many facets of governance in the era of ‘top-
level design’, as proclaimed by the Xi Jinping administration. Pinpointing these and catego-
rizing what we see evolving in summarizing terms and labels, however, is a challenging
exercise. Can we speak about centralized governance when it is still mainly up to local gov-
ernments to implement and adjust central policies on the basis of a sometimes astonishing
amount of discretionary power and to find solutions to problems that are often not even
on the central government’s agenda (yet)? Has the political leadership started a new era in
the management of its agents, when cadres are actually increasingly being held respon-
sible on the basis of (very) traditional ideology? While ‘top-level design’ seems to have a
fertilizing impact on the local prioritization of policies and issues, will it in the long term
not stifle open and fruitful local innovation? Which type of authoritarianism is the most
suitable label for Chinese politics, in times of the increased repression of political criticism
but increased public input in terms of formulated demands and the ways that new policies
are implemented on the ground? Is the verdict ‘more authoritarian’ in the general political
science sense actually still a category that promotes our understanding of contemporary
Chinese governance?
    While this special issue is not able to present a conclusive characterization of Chinese
governance under ‘top-level design’, it may at least help to trigger further reflections on
the above questions. What we can hope for, is to inspire other studies that will boldly dis-
cuss the adequacy of old paradigms of Chinese politics and governance at a macro level,
as well as accurate studies ‘on the ground’ on how new notions are playing out and with
what sort of long-term implications, bridging detailed empirics with the bigger picture.


Notes
 1. The guest editor and the authors would like to extend their warm thanks to the
    discussants during the Conference of the German Association for Social Science Research
    on China (ASC) in Cologne, 2017, as well as to all colleagues who were kindly willing to
    review the articles for this special issue - mostly at rather short notice during the stressful
    later phase of the preparations for this publication. We are also grateful to Anna Mackay
    who, also at short notice and excellently as always, proofread some of the texts assembled
    here. Last but not least, all remaining errors are our own.
 2. Cf., for example, Nathan, “Authoritarian Resilience”; Yang, Remaking the Chinese Leviathan;
    Hu, Tang, Yang, and Yan, The Modernization of China’s State Governance. For macro
    accounts on China’s current form of authoritarianism, see Minzner, End of an Era;
    Shambaugh, China’s Future.
 3. See, most prominently, Jin, Qian, and Weingast, “Regional Decentralization and Fiscal
    Incentives”; Montinola, Qian, and Weingast, “Federalism, Chinese Style.”
 4. See, for example, Chung, Centrifugal Empire.
 5. See, for example, Heilmann, China’s Political System; Red Swan.
 6. See, for example, Shue and Thornton, To Govern China.


References
Chung, Jae Ho. Centrifugal Empire: Central–Local Relations in China. New York: Columbia University Press,
  2016.
Heilmann, Sebastian, ed. China’s Political System. Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2017.
Heilmann, Sebastian. Red Swan: How Unorthodox Policy-Making Facilitated China’s Rise. Hong Kong: The
  Chinese University Press, 2018.
                                                                JOURNAL OF CHINESE GOVERNANCE            267


Hu, Angang, Xiao Tang, Zhusong Yang, and Yilong Yan. The Modernization of China’s State Governance.
   Singapore: Springer, 2017.
Jin, Hehui, Yingyi Qian, and Barry R. Weingast. “Regional Decentralization and Fiscal Incentives: Federalism,
   Chinese Style.” Journal of Public Economics 89, no. 9–10 (2005): 1719–1742.
Minzner, Carl. End of an Era: How China’s Authoritarian Revival Is Undermining Its Rise. Oxford, New York:
   Oxford University Press, 2018.
Montinola, Gabriella, Yingyi Qian, and Barry R. Weingast. “Federalism, Chinese Style. The Political Basis of
   Economic Success in China.” World Politics 48, no. 1 (1995): 50–81.
Nathan, Andrew J. “Authoritarian Resilience.” Journal of Democracy 14, no. 1 (2003): 6–17.
Shambaugh, David. China’s Future. Cambridge: Polity, 2016.
Shue, Vivienne, and Particia M. Thornton, eds. To Govern China: Evolving Practices of Power. Cambridge:
   Cambridge University Press, 2017.
Yang, Dali. Remaking the Chinese Leviathan. Market Transition and the Politics of Governance in China.
   Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2004.

                                                                         Guest editor: Anna L. Ahlers
                                                               IKOS, University of Oslo, Oslo, NORWAY
                                                                                 a.l.ahlers@ikos.uio.no

                                                               Received 31 May 2018; accepted 8 June 2018
                                                                                ß 2018 Zhejiang University
