Policy & Internet, Vol. 10, No. 4, 2018




Constructing a Data-Driven Society: China’s Social
Credit System as a State Surveillance Infrastructure
Fan Liang         , Vishnupriya Das, Nadiya Kostyuk, and Muzammil M. Hussain


Big data technologies have been adopted by both the public and private sectors to develop and
expand surveillance capacities. This article traces the institutional processes and political-economic
interests of the public and private stakeholders involved in the construction of China’s Social Credit
System (SCS), which is currently on track for full deployment on 1.4 billion citizens by 2020. The
SCS aims to centralize data platforms into a big data–enabled surveillance infrastructure to manage,
monitor, and predict the trustworthiness of citizens, firms, organizations, and governments in
China. A punishment/reward system based on credit scores will determine whether citizens and
organizations are able to access things like education, markets, and tax deductions. While the SCS is
widely described by the Western news media as a means of “big brother” or political control, we
find that it is a complicated system that focuses primarily on financial and commercial activities
rather than political ones. This article presents a framework for understanding state surveillance
infrastructures by exploring how various government agencies are cooperating to establish this
centralized data infrastructure with the aim of scoring credit, and discussing the distinct but
interconnected processes of data collection, data aggregation, and data analytics.
KEY WORDS: big data, social credit, infrastructures, data platforms, state surveillance




                                          Introduction

    Big data innovation is increasingly becoming an emerging resource across
private and public sectors in many countries. In China, the market size of the big
data industry was around $2.5 billion in 2016, and this figure is expected to
maintain an annual growth rate of 30 percent between 2017 and 2020 (CAICT,
2017). Meanwhile, big data technologies have been adopted by the Chinese
government to improve its control over public opinion, law enforcement,
individuals’ behaviors, and commercial activities (Creemers, 2017; Liu, He, Guo,
Yang, & Zhang, 2014). Recently, the Chinese government has released a series of
high-level guiding documents to advance its big data and artificial intelligence
(AI) capacities.




                                                 415

                                                                                         doi: 10.1002/poi3.183
                                                                           # 2018 Policy Studies Organization
416                                                                Policy & Internet, 10:4

     Among these national initiatives, China’s Social Credit System (SCS) has
drawn considerable academic and public attention not only because this top-level
effort tries to integrate traditional commercial credit rating into social behaviors
(Meissner, 2017), but also because it involves the construction of centralized data
infrastructures for data collection, mining, and analysis (Diab, 2017). By 2020, the
Chinese government aims to score the “creditworthiness” and “trustworthiness”
of each individual and organizational actor by a computational score based on
their historical and ongoing social and economic activities, and these credit scores
will determine whether the actor can obtain benefits or punishments. Through
this process, big data innovations and information and communication technolo-
gies (ICTs) are rapidly being instrumentalized and institutionalized by the
government to surveil and govern the political, social, and commercial dominions
of China.
     Due to the comprehensive and complex interactive participation of public
and private stakeholders in the construction of the SCS, this study examines the
case from the perspective of state surveillance infrastructures: state-sponsored and
big data–enabled surveillance efforts that are increasingly instrumentalized by
state powers to surveil and regulate the political, economic, and social dominions.
Using an inductive grounded case study of the historical context and develop-
mental trajectory of the SCS, we offer a grounded three-phase framework for
understanding one of the most ambitious and high-tech surveillance technologies
championed by a state power to date. In summary, we propose that first, the data
collection phase engages in the gathering of financial data (e.g., taxes, loans) and
nonfinancial data (e.g., travel information and social media data) via multi-
stakeholder mechanisms. In doing so, the SCS substantially expands the scale of
the data collected for credit ratings. Second, the data aggregation phase focuses on
the integration of separate data platforms into a centralized data infrastructure.
Data collected by disparate stakeholders are thus shared and integrated for social
credit ratings. Finally, the emergent data infrastructure is used to surveil four areas
for social credit scoring—government affairs, judicial affairs, social activities, and
commercial behaviors; and offers a reward and punishment mechanism. We hope
that this analytic framework for understanding state surveillance infrastructure
will allow scholars to explore the instrumentalization and institutionalization of
big data into China’s state power apparatuses, as well as to unpack the interplay
between public and private sector interests.

                                  Literature Review

    In studying the possible role of ICTs in authoritarian regimes, scholars tend
to take one of two contrasting positions: while digital optimists see ICTs as the
great leveler where ICTs function as liberation technologies expanding the
autonomous civic capabilities of citizens to challenge state power, digital pessimists
maintain that the capabilities of new media are socially and politically con-
structed. In the Chinese context, some scholars argue that ICTs have enabled
Chinese citizens to challenge state authority by offering alternative information,
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                 417

encouraging expression, and mobilizing activism. By contrast, others claim that
ICTs have instead empowered the Chinese government to conduct censorship,
manipulate public opinion, and reduce political risks. Rather than replicating
these optimistic and pessimistic perspectives, we argue that government techno-
crats rarely have the capacity to engineer technological systems alone. Instead,
the state plays a more elaborate role in curating competing stakeholders to
collaborate and cross-pollinate their expertise across sectors to establish new
technological systems, regulatory regimes, and bureaucratic capabilities (Shipan
& Volden, 2008).

               State Surveillance and Big Data in Comparative Perspectives

    To move beyond the optimist/pessimist paradigm, we argue that surveillance
studies offer a useful constructivist framework for understanding the institutional
construction of the SCS. In this tradition, political technologies are understood as
“the ensemble of practices and techniques aiming at the focused, systematic and
routine attention to personal details for purposes of influence, management,
protection or direction” (Lyon, 2007, p. 14). This body of literature has explored
the relations between state power and social control in “surveillance societies”
where everyday autonomous civic and private life is under constant state
surveillance (Trottier, 2016).
    Today, state administrations have employed various approaches, including
censuses, taxation records, passports, and closed-circuit television (CCTV), to
collect data representing populations at large (Gates, 2011). These expanded
surveillance efforts are enabled by the development of ICTs and data applica-
tions. Additionally, state surveillance is being increasingly integrated into
“surveillant assemblages” (Haggerty & Ericson, 2000) leading to “ubiquitous
mass surveillance” (Schneier, 2015). Especially since 2010, the widespread
adoption of big data–enabled surveillance has further accelerated this trajectory
of state intrusion into autonomous domains of civic life (Van Dijck, 2014).
Building on this literature, we conceptualize big data–enabled state surveillance
into three features to explain how state power and technologies are being
normalized in state–society relations.

Big Data–Enabled Surveillance Aims to “Track Everything About Everyone at All
Times.” One of the most significant consequences of big data surveillance is that
larger amounts of public and private data can be actively amassed by state
powers and other actors. While conventional surveillance efforts aimed to track
specific objects and information (Lyon, 2007), big data surveillance adopts
automated methods to “track everything about everyone at all times” (Andre-
jevic & Gates, 2014, p. 190). Such techniques use both online and offline sources
to target each and all individuals, often without their consent. This new “collect
everything” approach reshapes traditional data collection efforts in three ways.
    First, instead of intentional and explicit sampling techniques, this new
approach indiscriminately targets entire populations (Lyon, 2014). Notably, the
418                                                              Policy & Internet, 10:4

collect everything approach indicates that personal data are not collected by an
identifiable actor for accountable goals. Rather, massive quantities of data about
individuals are gathered and aggregated from various sources. Second, while
traditional surveillance activities have an intent and goal, big data surveillance
lacks these two important attributes and instead aggregates private information
before its actual use is ascertained (Van Dijck, 2014). This vaguely defined and
intentionally open-ended purpose for data collection has become possible as a
result of lowering costs and the increasing ability to automate most of the data
collection process (Lyon, 2014). Third, conventional data collection techniques
were explicit, and therefore visible. Private individuals were aware of being
monitored, albeit not always consenting; but contemporary means of collecting
data tend to be invisible and exacerbate the power differential between state
powers and private citizens (Tufekci, 2014). In this sense, big data innovations
are transforming the surveillant assemblages of states into ubiquitous, invisible,
and normalized practices across the world system (Ball & Wood, 2013; Trottier,
2016).

Big Data–Enabled Surveillance Blurs the Interplay Between State and Commercial
Sectors. Through mutually beneficial partnerships, states desiring to erect contem-
porary surveillant assemblages have blurred the boundaries between the public
and private sectors (Fuchs, Boersma, Albrechtslund, & Sandoval, 2013; Gates,
2011). While the public sector has played an important role in establishing
institutional and organizational conditions for high-tech innovations to take hold
in local economies, states have not traditionally been the key sources of new
innovations themselves. Specifically, because government agencies are often not
able to innovate processes to manage and analyze large amounts of data,
specialized commercial entities—high-tech companies in particular—have begun
to play a profound role in supporting this process (Fuchs et al., 2013). In addition
to supporting data collection and analysis, corporate actors and technical experts
from the private sector have been working to meet governments’ demands by
offering them a range of new surveillance products like facial recognition
technologies (Gates, 2011). The integration of public and private sector actors in
the advancement of new surveillant assemblages makes it increasingly challeng-
ing to identify the primary actors responsible for surveillance expansions in this
“corporate–state nexus” (Ball & Wood, 2013, p. 3).
     In addition, high-tech firms are routinely coerced into sharing users’
aggregated data with third parties, including state institutions, for the purposes
of marketing, public services, or maintaining security (Van Dijck, 2014).
Accordingly, data gathered by a particular platform are increasingly repurposed
for other uses (Andrejevic & Gates, 2014)—leading to fundamental claims by
scholars that surveillance itself denotes a new genus of capitalism made possible
by the monetization of mass private data. In this process, data collected from
commercial areas—cell phone, social media, and banks—can be adopted for
intensifying state surveillance, meaning that commercial data may yield new
implications in the security field (Lyon, 2014).
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                 419

Big Data–Enabled Surveillance Sanctions Predictive Decisions About Individual
Citizens. If, in the past, the purpose of surveillance was to prevent some specified
actions, today big data–enabled surveillance allows states to go beyond direct
supervision and to predict certain actions through automated analytics. Rather
than post hoc responses to individuals’ actions, anticipatory ad hoc surveillance
attempts to actively “foresee the future in order to control the present” (Lyon,
2016, p. 6). This method has routinely been used to predict and control
commercial behaviors but also increasingly political and social activities (Shorey
& Howard, 2016). Therefore, big data–enabled surveillance should be understood
as a predictive-analytic method, as its main capacity is to analyze seemingly
unrelated data and discover unanticipated correlations (Andrejevic & Gates,
2014).
    Scholarship on digital politics argues that social media and computer
algorithms offer personalized networks and can “guess” the characters of
individuals. Although big data–enabled tactics enable surveillance systems to
scrutinize everyone, and perhaps understand individuals better than they may
comprehend themselves, this does not mean that data-mining enhanced surveil-
lance functions with equity or justice. On the contrary, these new practices have
allowed observers to selectively surveil individuals and provide customized
profiling, even when no crimes have been committed. Big data shifts surveillance
from “aggregated group-based analysis” to “individualized profiling and model-
ing” (Tufekci, 2014, p. 10). In this sense, big data provide tailored approaches by
which the state can implement individualized and selective scrutiny (Andrejevic
& Gates, 2014).

                            China’s State Surveillance and the SCS

     In the context of China, the government has employed a variety of methods
and policies, like Hukou (household registration) and Dang’an (personal archives),
to conduct state surveillance. While Hukou contains population registration
information and is mainly used for migration control, Dang’an aims to archive
personal information, including ID numbers, employment records, and education
data, and is usually unavailable to individuals. However, with the development
of new technologies, China’s surveillance assemblages have moved from the
traditional Hukou and Dang’an to more sophisticated methods like CCTV, Internet
censorship, and big data analytics (Creemers, 2017). A series of initiatives,
including real-name registration and the establishment of a Cyberspace Adminis-
tration of China in 2014, has indicated that the government is rapidly upgrading
digital information control mechanisms.
     In sum, China’s surveillance society has transformed from the previous
“Panoptic model” to a “Panspectric model,” because “information is now actively
generated by multiple sensors scattered across the lives of its subjects” (Creemers,
2017, p. 96). For instance, many cities in China have recruited grid administrators
or neighborhood watchers to monitor people’s daily lives (Hornby, 2016).
Meanwhile, smart-city pilot projects have been expanded by the government
420                                                                  Policy & Internet, 10:4

since 2010, and around 500 cities are cooperating with information technology
(IT) firms to improve their transportation, public administration, and health
service. In addition, China has installed more than 20 million street cameras (the
Sky Net Project), which enables the government to not only document criminal
activity but also track individuals through facial recognition. With a long history
of state-sponsored surveillance infrastructure projects, and including the new
surveillance infrastructures being built into and around existing development
initiatives, where and how does the SCS factor in?
     Scholarship on China’s SCS, like the infrastructure itself, is at a nascent stage
but has elicited a range of interdisciplinary interests and concerns. First, some
scholars argue that the SCS is an all-encompassing system (Chen & Cheung, 2017;
Meissner & W€   ubbeke, 2016). By conducting automatic and real-time monitoring,
the government is integrating previously separated surveillance platforms into
“an internet of surveillance” and building “an all-encompassing system penetrat-
ing, controlling and shaping society” (Meissner & W€       ubbeke, 2016, p. 52). Thus,
the SCS is regarded as an extension of Dang’an. In addition to individuals, the
SCS also aims to constantly monitor and rate the behavior of companies and other
market actors (Meissner, 2017). However, it goes far beyond traditional financial
credit rating, as it extends credit ratings to the social, judicial, and political fields
(Creemers, 2017). Therefore, only those individuals and organizations who
respect the rules and norms of the government and the Party have access to the
economic and financial sector, as well as government support and public services.
In contrast, those who break the rules and norms will lose economic and financial
access or benefits (e.g., market permits, tax reduction) (Meissner & W€         ubbeke,
2016).
     Second, scholars have noted the monumental significance of the vast data
collection and sharing ambitions that are implied by the SCS, because the Chinese
government is purportedly collecting digital records on the social and financial
behaviors of private citizens and organizations with the support of IT firms
including Alibaba and Baidu (Chen & Cheung, 2017). Additionally, more than 30
central government agencies are involved in building national data platforms by
gathering and sharing their data, and local governments are also required to
share data with the central government (Meissner, 2017). More importantly, the
SCS is invisible and much subtler compared to traditional surveillance tools, since
it embeds political goals within algorithms (Meissner & W€        ubbeke, 2016). As a
result, the distribution of power is determined by the ownership of data, and it is
important for the firms and local governments to share data with the central
government (Meissner & W€     ubbeke, 2016).
     Third, some scholars are examining the SCS from a broad surveillance and
social management perspective. Hoffman (2017, p. 24) claims that the SCS is being
built to achieve China’s automated social management ambitions, and considers
the SCS “a simultaneous co-optative and coercive responsibility system” whereby
individuals are co-opted to engage in this system. Moreover, the SCS is creating a
joint reward and punishment mechanism through which individuals with good
credit records can receive benefits from the state while those with bad credit
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance               421

scores may receive state sanctions (Chen & Cheung, 2017). Furthermore, it is
claimed that China’s various surveillance tools are integrated by ICTs and
ubiquitous data collection and analysis (Creemers, 2017).
     However, many questions remain unanswered. For example, it is still unclear
how the Chinese government is building the SCS, and how public and private
data are collected and integrated. Although the existing research has delivered
insightful results through various approaches, we argue that it is important to
provide an overall analysis of China’s SCS. To achieve this goal, the rest of this
article integrates the contexts of high-tech government-sponsored surveillant
assemblages that have been observed by surveillance studies scholars, with the
concerns surrounding the SCS that have been identified by scholars of contempo-
rary China. To guide this process-tracing case study, we tether our concerns and
analytic focus on unpacking the ongoing reconstruction of China as a surveillance
society to the following questions:
    RQ1: What are the historical antecedents of China’s SCS? (Historical overview)


    RQ2: What types of data are to be collected for China’s SCS, and who is
      entrusted to do this work? (Data collection)


    RQ3: How are public and private data being assembled and processed to
      establish China’s SCS? (Data aggregation)


    RQ4: To what extent, and with what consequences, might China’s SCS
      evaluate and score social credit? (Data analytics)


                                      Methods and Data

     Process tracing is a commonly used qualitative methodology for systemati-
cally unpacking the wide variety of data and chronologies surrounding complex
organizational and institutional phenomena (Collier, 2011). Using this approach,
we generated a series of detailed descriptive accounts of China’s SCS while
paying particular attention to the unique sequence of events through which
policies developed and initiatives expanded between 2014 and 2017. The case
evidence for our process tracing of the SCS was organized in three overlapping
but distinct phases, namely: (i) conducting a broad search of media discourse
surrounding China’s SCS; (ii) examining the resulting database of policy and
commercial material surrounding SCS infrastructure; and (iii) mapping the
ecosystem and collaborators of the SCS.
     The first phase was to collect news reporting about the SCS from both English
and Chinese news coverage. We began by establishing a wide range of search
criteria and keywords to capture the breadth of discourse circulating about
China’s SCS policies and efforts. This study focused on the national construction
422                                                             Policy & Internet, 10:4

of the SCS, instead of provincial or county level social credit systems. We used 15
English search keywords including, for example: “social credit, China,” “social
credit system,” “personal credit, China,” and “credit rating, China,” and in
Chinese we used 16 keywords, including “社会信用 (social credit),” “社会信用体
系 (social credit system),” “个人征信 (personal credit rating),” and “信用平台
(credit platform).”1 Next, we identified relevant news reports by searching these
keywords on Google and Baidu for both English and Chinese content, and
LexisNexis for English. We thereby collected a representative sample of news
stories spread by China’s official media (e.g., Xinhua, People’s Daily, Global
Times), China’s commercial media (e.g., Caixin, Sixth Tone), and Western media
outlets (e.g., New York Times, The Economist, Financial Times, and Washington
Post), and removed duplicate articles. Our final archive of unique articles
consisted of 133 Chinese and 142 English news clippings addressing China’s
national SCS, much of it published in the years 2014–17.
     In the second phase, we gathered an archive of materials produced by the
Chinese government and the Party. We searched Chinese keywords on China’s
official website (http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/), and included both national and
departmental policies and documents. By doing so, we obtained 165 results
released between 1989 and 2017 (see Appendix Table A). While 56 documents
were released before 2014, 109 were issued between 2014 and 2017. Among these
109 documents, 20 are explicitly related to the guidelines and plans of national
SCS, and 44 emphasize specific fields (e.g., finance, transport, and the environ-
ment). Meanwhile, 21 emphasize the joint reward and punishment mechanisms,
and the remaining 24 documents are associated with broader issues (e.g., the big
data industry, AI development, and Internet plus). In addition, we collected data
and information from five national credit platforms (Table 1). In doing so, we
aimed to understand what types of data are collected and shared, and how
individuals and firms are evaluated by these official platforms.
     In the third phase, we gathered an archive of commercial information from
business intelligence services, industry research memos, and organizational
reports to further understand the SCS from an industrial and commercial vantage
point, in addition to the aims of government and concerns of civil society
stakeholders. First, we collected documents regarding China’s credit rating and
big data development initiatives (e.g., the Report of the Big Data Development in
China, and Blue Book on the Development of China’s Credit Card Industry).
Second, we identify the functions of several commercial credit rating products,
particularly Alibaba’s Sesame Credit.
     Using our combined archive of policy documents, business memos, academic
literature, and news reports, we began to map the relationships between actors
involved in the development and deployment of the SCS. Drawing links between
institutional forces involved examining relationships at the macro (between
government departments, and private firms) and micro (different platforms and
tools) levels. Through a careful analysis of this database we generated a detailed
account of both the imagined institutional architecture of the system and the
ongoing processes through which it is being implemented. Throughout the
                                            Table 1. Comparison Table of China’s Public and Private Social Credit Platforms

Date                                 Stakeholders                                Platforms                                        Volume                         Focus

Official Platforms:
  2006                     People’s Bank of China (PBC)        Credit Reference Center                            899 million individuals þ firms       Public; Commerce
  2013                     The Supreme People’s Court          The Blacklist of Trust-breaking Platform           7.49 million                          Public; Commerce;
                                                                                                                    individuals þ firms þ governments     Government
  2014                     State Administration for Industry   National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity   406 million data                      Commerce
                             and Commerce                        System
  2015                     National Development and Reform     Credit China                                       150 million data                      Public; Commerce
                             Commission (NDRC); PBC; State
                             Information Center; Baidu
  2015                     NDRC                                National Credit Information Sharing Platform       10.7 billion data                     Public; Commerce;
                                                                                                                                                          Government
Private and State-Owned Firms:
  2005                     Shenzhen government                 Pengyuan 800 Credit                                400 million individuals þ firms       Public; Commerce
  2005                     China Chengxin                      Wanxiang Fen                                       300 million individuals þ firms       Public; Commerce
  2013                     China Intelli Credit                Intelli Credit                                     70 million individuals                Public
  2013                     Sinoway                             Zhuzhu Fen                                         Potential 920 million individuals     Public
  2014                     Ant Financial (Alibaba)             Sesame Credit                                      520 million individuals               Public; Commerce
  2015                     Lakala and Lenovo                   Kaola Credit                                       80 million individuals þ firms        Public; Commerce
  2015                     Ping An                             Qianhai Haoxindu                                   300 million individuals þ firms       Public; Commerce
  2017                     Tencent                             Tencent Credit                                     820 million individuals               Public

Notes: Volume is measured by two categories: 1. How much data is collected by the platform (e.g., 10.7 billion data); and 2. How many
                                                                                                                                                                            Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




individuals, firms, or agencies are targeted (e.g., 520 million individuals). Not listed on table: as of 2014, 150þ companies have various credit
scoring platforms, primarily serving commercial sector needs, including: antifraud, lending, and risk monitoring goals.
                                                                                                                                                                            423
424                                                              Policy & Internet, 10:4

mapping process we were guided by our research questions and scholarly concerns
regarding the relationship between big data and institutionalized power in China.

                               Results and Analysis

                           Historical Overview of the SCS

     The term “credit” has complicated definitions in Chinese. It is usually used to
indicate various ideas like Chengxin (integrity), Xinyong (credit), Xinyu (reputa-
tion), or Xinren (credence) (Shi, 2007). In the history of China, “credit” was
adopted to indicate moral principles, particularly individual ethics (i.e., Chengxin)
(Lin, 2003). In contemporary China, the concept “credit” includes broader
meanings, including social aspects, financial aspects, and legal aspects (Shi, 2007;
Yu, 2016). In the process of constructing the SCS, “credit” was first conceptualized
as financial credit. In 2007, the State Council released Guiding Opinions concerning
the Constructions of a Social Credit System, and conceptualized social credit as “an
important structural arrangement in the market economic system” (State Council
General Office, 2007, p. 1, author emphasis). In other words, the government
focused on the financial aspects of credit during this period. In 2014, the State
Council released the Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System
(2014–2020), regarding credit as “an important component part of the Socialist
market economy system and the Social governance system” (State Council, 2014, p. 1,
author emphasis). It is obvious that the social aspects of credit are included in the
SCS’s construction in 2014.
     In fact, the demand for a credit system in China can be traced back to the
“Triangle Debt” in 1990, where the initial support for a credit system concentrated
on addressing problems in the commercial and financial sectors.2 With the
development of economic reforms, many of China’s firms defaulted on debt
payments and became connected in debts to each other. The State Council
consequently pushed reforms to handle the loaning problem, leading to credit
scoring companies beginning to evaluate corporate credit during the 1990s (Yu,
2016). Starting in 2000, some state-owned enterprises began to assess consumer
credit as well. At the 16th Party Congress in 2002, President Jiang Zemin
maintained that China must “establish a social credit system compatible with a
modern market economy.”3 At this point the People’s Bank of China (PBC)
established the Enterprise and Personal Credit Information Database, but the
platform had only limited data (Yu, 2016).
     In 2007, the Ministerial-Joint Meeting System was established to construct a
designated national SCS. Initially, 18 central government departments, including
the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC),4 the PBC, and
Ministry of Commerce, were initiated in this system. Some local governments—
Shanghai, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang—were also involved in building a credit
information platform at the provincial level. Additionally, mostly state-owned,
but also market-oriented credit investigation firms were also included (Yu, 2016).
In 2011, China further proposed the construction of a SCS in four areas:
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                   425

government affairs, commercial behaviors, social activities, and judicial affairs. In
2012, the Ministerial-Joint Meeting System extended its membership to 35 central
departments, including the Publicity Department (i.e., China’s State Propaganda
Department), Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Justice.
    Admittedly, much of the early motives and efforts were limited to improve
accounting and loan-lending activities for commerce and finance rather than the
social sectors (Zhang, 2016). The main goal for building a credit system was to
address financial aspects of credit. Another notable feature is that though China
had tried to construct data platforms for credit system, it could not obtain enough
data for credit scoring. The government had limited data to evaluate the economic
and financial domains, and this initial project did not cover the whole of society.

                               Upgrading of the SCS Since 2014

    In 2014, the State Council released the Planning Outline for the Construction of a
Social Credit System (2014–2020), which upgraded the construction of the SCS in
three fundamental aspects. First, China committed to comprehensively complet-
ing its national SCS by 2020. This expedites the governmental ambition, noting
that China plans to establish an all-encompassing SCS to monitor and manage the
entirety of society by using both traditional and big data approaches (Clover,
2016; Meissner, 2017; Zhang, Sun, & Zeng, 2015). Each Chinese citizen, organiza-
tion, company, and government department will receive a unique social credit
number relating to their credit results. Compared to credit systems in other
nations like the United States, China’s SCS goes beyond a financial credit rating,
since it incorporates not only the evaluation of financial and commercial activities
but also the assessment of social behaviors. Thus, this system is considered to be
a “broad social credit system” by officials (Han, 2014).
    The second fundamental change is the expansion of critical collaborators
engaged in the technical construction of the SCS. Moving beyond an initially
small number of provincial governments and commercial agencies, the State
Council significantly expanded the membership of the Ministerial-Joint Meeting
System, with 47 central departments included in the system by 2017. In addition,
China’s technology giants began to cooperate with the government to share data
and offer support (Zhang, 2016). For instance, Alibaba is currently working with
NDRC to build a commercial credit system by sharing data and blacklists of small
businesses (CCTV, 2016). Alibaba will share company information, especially
concerning firms with bad credit records, with NDRC in order to establish a
national credit platform. Baidu, another Chinese high-tech giant, is providing
technical support for NDRC and the PBC to build the Credit China platform
(Xinhua, 2016b). Furthermore, some financial and technical firms are building
their own parallel platforms and services for individual credit rating, such as
Alibaba’s Sesame Credit, Tencent Credit, and Kaola Credit (Table 1). Meanwhile,
more than 150 companies are now offering credit rating products for the
commercial field (Meissner, 2017). In this sense, China now has two parallel but
426                                                              Policy & Internet, 10:4

interconnected social credit ecosystems: the official SCS being seeded by
government, and other commercial credit ecosystems.
     Third, the central government is constructing several national data platforms
to collect, store, share, and mine population-wide data (Table 1). For instance,
NDRC has been developing the National Credit Information Sharing Platform
(NCISP) since 2015, and this platform is connected with 42 central agencies, 32
local governments, and 50 market actors (Xinhua, 2017). Meanwhile, some high-
tech firms, including Alibaba and Baidu, are sharing data with NCISP (CCTV,
2016). As will be discussed next, this national platform and the ensuing ecosystem
of supporting actors and activities has already stored more than 10.7 billion data
points regarding commerce, individuals, and government affairs. In addition, the
government’s main efforts are now focused on integrating these separated
platforms into centralized data infrastructures. By doing so, the state hopes to
modernize its surveillance system with key features promised by big data–
enabled innovations. It is in this sense that big data technology is being
instrumentalized by the state, enabling the state authority to manage, monitor,
predict, and govern each actor in its political, economic, and social domains.
     Given China’s national efforts to deploy such a comprehensive data
infrastructure, we henceforth conceptualize the SCS as a state surveillance
infrastructure—a state-sponsored big data–enabled surveillance effort that is
increasingly used by a state power to govern and regulate the political, economic,
and social domains of the nation. In the remaining analysis, we unpack the
creation of the SCS as a state surveillance infrastructure by focusing on three
phases of technical and technocratic innovation: data collection, data aggregation,
and data analytics.

                             Data Collection of the SCS

    What types of data are to be collected for the SCS? Figure 1 traces the
ecosystem of the emerging SCS at the national level. Obviously, the data
collection phase requires collecting both financial and nonfinancial data for
evaluation and surveillance from various public and private sources. While
financial data include bank statements, taxes, loans, and transactions, nonfinancial
data may contain a variety of personal and social information, such as
employment, education, and criminal records, and social media use (Meissner &
W€ ubbeke, 2016; Zhang, 2016). Furthermore, this phase also requires partnerships
and collaborations across multiple players to gather and share data, including
government agencies and private sectors (Zhang et al., 2015). To illustrate, we use
the NCISP—the data backbone of the SCS (Meissner, 2017)—as an example to
address RQ1.
    NCISP is a national data platform developed by NDRC in 2015. Currently,
NCISP has 400 data sets collected from central agencies and local governments.
Notably, these data sets involve both public data (e.g., administrative licenses and
penalties like market access or forfeit) and private data (e.g., citizen names and
ID numbers). Among these 400 data sets, about two-thirds (n ¼ 261) focus on
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                                     427




 Figure 1. Organizational and Process Chart of China’s Social Credit System (SCS). Sources: Planning
Outline for the Construction of a SCS (2014–2020) (2014), and the Three Years’ Focal Working Tasks of
 the Construction of a SCS (2014–2016) (2014).5 Notes: Dotted lines indicate unofficial but anticipated
roles of private firms in the construction of the official SCS, and their private credit systems focus on
    social and commercial credit. National Credit Information Sharing Platform (NCISP); Credit
    Reference Center (CRC); National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System (NECIPS);
                              Blacklist of Trust-breaking Platform (BTBP).



firms and commerce, while around a fifth (n ¼ 74) collect data from individuals.
The remaining data sets cover social organizations (n ¼ 32) and government
affairs (n ¼ 33). Although news media tend to highlight the social control aspect
of China’s SCS (Clover, 2016), it is obvious that the main focus of the SCS is the
commercial and financial sectors. Additionally, around two-thirds of the data sets
(n ¼ 244) gather basic information, including the name and address of the firm/
person, social credit number, and ID number. These data are mainly used to
identify each actor. In contrast, a third of the data sets (n ¼ 119) emphasize trust-
breaking information, including information like the category and time of punish-
ment, bad credit records, and crime records. Finally, 37 data sets include rewards-
related information, such as commercial and individual honors, and volunteer
services, which is employed for the rewards and incentives.
     What data are gathered in these data sets? NCISP actually uses at least 537
variables to measure commercial firms, individual citizens, social organizations (e.g.,
nongovernmental organizations), and government agencies. Specifically, a bit over
half (295 variables are used to collect information relating to commerce and firms).
Some variables focus on basic information like the firm’s name, location, legal
representatives, website, social credit numbers, phone numbers, shareholders, and
428                                                                Policy & Internet, 10:4

product information. Other variables emphasize rewards and honors, punishments,
and criminal records. Moreover, around a fifth of the total (n ¼ 110) variables involve
individual data, including name, ID number, trust-breaking behaviors, certificates,
and administrative penalties. Notably, this does not mean that NCISP collects 110
variables from everyone in China; instead, many variables are obtaining from
specific groups of people, such as lawyers, teachers, and students. In addition, 79
variables are employed to gather data from social organizations, including the
address, service field, administration registration, and trust-breaking activities.
Finally, government affairs make use of 53 variables, focusing on administrative
licenses and penalties. These results show that the SCS combines the financial
aspects of credit with the social aspects of credit, focusing on the commercial and
financial sectors instead of social sectors. This does not mean that social control is
not important; instead, the combination of commercial activities and social behaviors
has further complicated the practice of state surveillance in China.
     Who, then, is responsible for data collection? Of the 42 central government
agencies involved, we find that NDRC provides 73 data sets (68 commercial data
sets and five citizen-focused data sets), which makes it the most important player.
The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology is another critical agency,
sharing 34 data sets, followed by the Ministry of Agriculture (28 data sets), the
National Health and Family Planning Commission (27 data sets), the Ministry of
Transport (24 data sets), and the Ministry of Housing and Urban–Rural
Development (24 data sets). Overall, these six central agencies supply a bit over
half (n ¼ 210) of NCISP’s data sets. In contrast, the Ministry of Culture (three data
sets), Cyberspace Administration (two), Securities Regulatory Commission (two),
and State Administration for Industry & Commerce (one) only provide limited
data sets in this system. This does not indicate, however, that they are
inconsequential players. As mentioned, the “collect everything” approach is
supported by the aggregation and collaboration of various sources (Van Dijck,
2014). The collaborators of NCISP further demonstrate that the SCS aims to gather
massive quantities of data from a variety of agencies.
     Among 400 data sets, 384 are labeled as one of three sharing categories: public
sharing, limited sharing, and intergovernment sharing. Specifically, three-quarters of
the data sets (n ¼ 284) are publicly available, meaning that the public can access
these data. By contrast, around a fifth of the data sets (n ¼ 70)—mostly punish-
ments-related information like insurance fraud—are limited for sharing, but it is
unclear who has access to these data sets. Finally, the remaining 30 data sets are
only shared among governments, such as student credit and administrative
penalties. Another notable fact is that financial and high-tech companies are also
involved in the construction of the SCS (Figure 1), where private sector actors are
already collecting data from consumers to build their own credit rating services
(Table 1). It is worth noting that these parallel experiments in the marketplace
serve as an important vehicle for the state to imagine, test, and transfer potentially
viable and useful features for future inclusion into the government-run SCS.
     As discussed, big data–enabled surveillance aims to collect everything about
everyone (Andrejevic & Gates, 2014), and the Chinese government is advancing
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                   429

its surveillance capacity by using new technologies (Creemers, 2017; Hoffman,
2017). The data collection phase indicates that the SCS is adopting the “collecting
everything” approach to gathering large amounts of public and personal data.
These 400 data sets have been created to collect data from citizens, firms,
organizations, and government agencies in China, and 537 variables are adopted
to identify every aspect of each actor. Accordingly, the data collection phase
should be regarded as a multistakeholder mechanism that gathers and stores
everything from various official agencies.

                                 Data Aggregation of the SCS

     In the second phase, both financial and nonfinancial data collected by multi-
sector actors will be integrated by central government to serve as a centralized
data infrastructure. This process is a black box since many details are unclear. In
fact, this process is iterative and adaptive: China is building at least five central
data platforms to store and evaluate credit-related data, including NCISP, Credit
China, Credit Reference Center, National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity
System (NECIPS), and the List of Dishonest Persons Subject to Enforcement
(Table 1). Although these platforms have been developed by different entities, the
central government requires them to share and exchange data (Xinhua, 2017).
Thus, these distributed platforms have different foci but the final goal is to
construct a centralized infrastructure to support the SCS.
     Figure 2 visualizes the institutional partnerships among the central govern-
ment departments that are curating the SCS infrastructure. Over 50 central agencies
are involved in the construction of the SCS, and are tasked with sharing data to
help construct various elements of it. Each node represents a government
department and is arranged around a circle, where the lines between two nodes
indicate that these two entities are collaborating in the SCS construction. Obviously,
NDRC and the PBC are the two most important actors in the SCS infrastructure:
NDRC is connected to 39 central agencies and has 154 data collection and sharing
missions with them. NDRC’s primary partners include the PBC, Ministry of
Finance, Cyberspace Administration, and Ministry of Commerce. Its mission
primarily emphasizes the commercial and social sectors. Moreover, the PBC has 41
partners and 136 missions, such as constructing financial credit investigation
systems, local information systems, and the credit scores of enterprises and citizens.
While commercial and individual social credit issues are well represented, only a
limited number of agencies focusing on political control are involved (e.g., the
Ministry of Public Security and the Cyber Administration). Again, these depart-
ments emphasize economic, commercial, and financial surveillance rather than
exclusively social and political control, suggesting that the SCS is not simply a
political surveillance and control system, but rather a comprehensive infrastructure
that is upgrading government’s ability to surveil all facets of society—thus
normalizing a broader culture of a “surveillance society.”
     Data infrastructures often integrate heterogeneous components into a single
ubiquitous and invisible system. Hence, China’s SCS is best understood as an
430                                                                              Policy & Internet, 10:4




 Figure 2. Government Agencies Involved in the Establishment of China’s SCS. Sources: Division of Tasks
   for the Social Credit System Construction Plan, Three Year Key Tasks in the Construction of the Social
Credit System (2014–2016). Notes: Committee of Political and Legal Affairs (CPLA); General Administration
of Customs (GAC); General Administration of Sport (GAS); General Administration of Quality Supervision
(GAQS); Insurance Regulatory Commission (IRC); Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council (LAOSC);
Ministry of Environment Protection (MEP); Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MHURD);
     Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (MHRSS); Ministry of Industry and Information
     Technology (MIIT); Ministry of Science and Technology (MST); National Development and Reform
 Commission (NDRC); National Health and Family Planning Commission (NHFPC); Securities Regulatory
 Commission (SRC); State Administration for Industry & Commerce (SAIC); State Administration of Civil
      Service (SACS); State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE); State Administration of Press,
      Publication, Radio, Film and Television (SAPPRFT); State Administration of Taxation (SAT); State
            Administration of Work Safety (SAWS); State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA).


emerging state surveillance infrastructure since it exhibits intentional efforts by the
state to build a centralized data infrastructure, which also necessitates the
collaboration of various competing public and private actors working on unifying
distributed but connected public and private platforms and systems. These
observations stand in contrast to the current logic about the “platformization of
infrastructure” which implies that state infrastructures are being replaced by
privatized and independent platforms in Western nations (Plantin, Lagoze,
Edwards, & Sandvig, 2016). The Chinese government is attempting instead to shift
its distributed public and private platforms into a centralized state surveillance
infrastructure by reorganizing its bureaucracy—that is, resulting in an “infra-
structurization of platforms” (Plantin et al., 2016, p. 3). On the one hand, the SCS is
constituted by independent platforms owned by government agencies and private
firms, and each platform focuses on distinct data and surveilled subjects. On the
other hand, the SCS’s developmental history and current trajectory are working on
integrating these distributed platforms into an all-encompassing infrastructural
system. To achieve this goal, the Chinese government has focused considerable
effort in data sharing, integration, and analytics (Figure 1). Both central and local
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                   431

governments are focusing on promoting the infrastructurization of their platforms
by credit information exchange and sharing.
    In addition, some companies are not only building their own credit rating
platforms, but are increasingly poised to cooperate with the government to
establish the centralized data infrastructure. In fact, this integration is consistent
with recent claims that the rise of big data has blurred the boundaries between
the state and private sectors (Ball & Wood, 2013). This “corporate–state nexus”
indicates that data gathered from commercial platforms and social behaviors are
increasingly used for constructing the official SCS—in other words, a state
surveillance infrastructure. Meanwhile, the government also shares data with
these commercial sectors for the purpose of credit rating. For instance, Alibaba
announced that less than 20 percent of the data used to assess personal credit
come from Alibaba itself, and more than 80 percent of the data are collected from
other sources, particularly government databases (Caixin, 2016). This means that
the state and private actors are integrating to build a state surveillance
infrastructure.

                                   Data Analytics of the SCS

     To what extent, and with what consequences, might the SCS evaluate and
score social credit? In the third phase, planned for 2020, China plans to assess the
credit of citizens, firms, organizations, and government agencies, and build a
reward and punishment mechanism. Data integrated by the centralized infra-
structure are currently being used to build credit systems into various levels of
Chinese society. According to official documents, the SCS is being applied to
make data-driven decisions in four areas: government affairs (e.g., civil servant
performance dossiers); judicial affairs (e.g., law enforcement); social activities
(e.g., Internet applications and services); and commercial activities (e.g., e-
commerce) (Figure 1). Similar to data aggregation, the process of data analytics is
also a black box, as many details are hidden. This section examines two cases—
Enterprise Environmental Credit and the Reward and Punishment Mechanism—
to unpack the process of data analysis, because these two systems have clear and
open processes.
     The first case is China’s measures for the evaluation of Enterprise Environ-
mental Credit, which is designed to evaluate the environmental credit of some
enterprises. According to official documents, each relevant firm will receive a 100-
scale score by evaluating four main categories: pollution prevention, ecological
protection, environmental management, and social supervision (Table 2). Specifi-
cally, each category includes several variables, and each variable will receive one
of three scoring results: 100–80, 79–50, and 49–0. For example, pollution
prevention includes four variables—air and water pollution, solid waste,
hazardous waste, and noise pollution—making up 29 percent of the total score. If
a company obtained 80 in the evaluation of these four variables, then it will
receive 23.2 points (0.29 80) in the pollution prevention category. In sum, 21
variables are used to evaluate environmental credit of enterprises. Some variables
432                                                                            Policy & Internet, 10:4

                     Table 2. The Evaluation of Enterprise Environmental Credit

Categories                             Variables            Weights (%)                   Scores

Pollution prevention                       4                    29                 100–80, 79–50, 49–0
Ecological protection                      3                     5                 100–80, 79–50, 49–0
Environmental management                   10                   54                 100–80, 79–50, 49–0
Social supervision                         4                    12                 100–80, 79–50, 49–0
Total                                      21                   100

Source: National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Ecology and
Environment, People’s Bank of China, and Banking Regulatory Commission (2013).



(e.g., administrative penalties, and the discharge standard-meeting rate) comprise
15 percent of the total credit score, while others (e.g., resource utilization, and
media supervision) only constitute between 1 and 2 percent of the total score.
Obviously, the government is using quantified elements to assess different aspects
of commercial players.
     The consequence of China’s emerging SCS should be regarded as a joint
reward/incentive and punishment/constraint mechanism (Figure 3), since the
establishment of a rewards–punishments system is the focal point of the SCS.
According to official documents,6 this mechanism uses three steps to identify
whether a subject (i.e., a person, a firm, an organization, or a government agency)




    Figure 3. The Joint Reward and Punishment Mechanism of China’s SCS. Sources: State Council
  Guiding Opinions concerning Establishing and Perfecting Incentives for Promise-keeping and Joint
  Punishment Systems for Trust-Breaking, and Accelerating the Construction of Social Sincerity (State
Council, 2016), Opinions concerning Accelerating the Construction of Credit Supervision, Warning and
     Punishment Mechanisms for Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking (CCP Central
     Committee General Office, State Council General Office, 2016), Guiding Opinions concerning
Strengthening the Construction of a Personal Sincerity System (State Council General Office, 2016), and
  State Council Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening and Regulating the List of Incentives for
        Promise-keeping and Joint Punishment Systems for Trust-Breaking (State Council, 2017).
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                    433

is in red list (rewards) or blacklist (punishments). Figure 3 visualizes these
processes. First, the governments (county level and above) and public affairs
organizations are responsible for determining the red list and blacklist, while
other actors like news media and firms can offer information relating to rewards
or punishments. In the second phase, three types of data are integrated into
NCISP. The first is basic information, such as names, ID numbers, and legal
representatives. The second indicates the reasons for trust-keeping or punishing
trust-breaking behaviors, and the final category contains joint rewards and
punishments, credit repair, and withdrawal mechanisms. If a subject displays
serious trust-breaking activities, then NCISP will directly share relevant data with
Credit China—another national credit data platform developed by NDRC and
PBC. Otherwise, this system will establish a Focus Group List including those
who are assumed to be trust-breaking subjects but who have yet to meet the
standards of the blacklist. If this subject is mentioned by three different sources,
then NCISP will move this subject into a Big Data Warning List for further
investigation. In the final phase, NCISP will share data with Credit China, and
the later will announce the red list and blacklist for the public. Meanwhile, local
credit websites and sectoral websites will also release rewards and punishments
information. Evidently, these data platforms play different roles in this process:
while NCISP emphasizes information gathering and evaluation, Credit China
focuses on publicizing the blacklist.
     Notably, not every subject will be assigned into the red list or blacklist. If the
subjects have good credit records, exhibit compliance with the Party’s rules and
political goals, and perform good social responsibility, they stand to receive
rewards and incentives. In fact, the government is building “Green Channels” for
trust-keeping subjects, including prioritization schemes for accessing public
services, the optimization of administrative services, and decrease in transaction
costs. In contrast, those in the blacklist stand to receive punishments and
constraints affecting their social, political, and economic activities. First, adminis-
trative restrictions involve market supervision and management, public market
access, administrative examination and approval, and policy support. Second,
marketized restrictions involve constraints on market interactions and luxury
goods and services, and an increase in lending rates. Finally, socialized
restrictions try to establish a mechanism of public supervision, strengthening
disclosure and exposure of trust-breaking acts.
     By deploying this big data–enabled surveillance infrastructure to drive a
rewards and punishments instrument across China’s state, commercial, and social
dominions, the SCS is currently being imagined by state bureaucrats and
technocrats as incentivizing individuals to engage in a range of activities important
to the state, including issuing permits, buying property, traveling on airlines and
high-speed trains, accessing loans, and qualifying for employment, etc. To do so,
the government must operationalize data-driven mechanisms that incentivize
trust-keeping and punish trust-breaking activities. This reward–punishment strat-
egy will also allow government to decide, for example, who may have access to
and participate in public services and commercial activities, respectively.
434                                                             Policy & Internet, 10:4

                                   Conclusion

     This study examines the institutional process and political–economic
interests of the public and private stakeholders who are advancing the
construction of the SCS. By conceptualizing the SCS as a state surveillance
infrastructure, we investigate three distinct but interconnected phases: data
collection, data aggregation, and data analytics. Four conclusions can be drawn
from our case study. First, although China has tried to build a credit system
since the 1990s, the construction of the SCS has moved forward comprehen-
sively since 2014. The SCS goes far beyond traditional commercial credit, since
it plans to build a system that will cover all of society. Second, the data
collection phase involves multistakeholder mechanisms by which public and
private data are gathered from various sources. Notably, the SCS is focusing on
commercial data and agencies (i.e., financial and commercial activities), rather
than social aspects, given financial credit is the chief focus of China’s SCS.
Meanwhile, the current SCS is a combination of (giant) government database
and private sector data sets, and it is unclear how social media data might be
included and used in the SCS in future. Third, the government is building
several data platforms for integrating separate data into a state surveillance
infrastructure. In this process, private sectors are cooperating with the govern-
ment to establish a “corporate–state nexus.” This has complicated the process
of state surveillance in China, since previous surveillance systems rarely
included the private sector. Finally, data instrumentalization indicates that the
government is attempting to evaluate every actor in China, and establish a
reward and punishment system. This mechanism will determine whether a
subject will have access to a variety of activities in China.
     However, many concerns and questions remain open with regard to this
system. First, a great deal of attention has been focused on personal privacy and
information security. As discussed, big data technologies enable the accumulation
of detailed personal information without informing individuals, and these data
can be used for security or political purposes (Shorey & Howard, 2016). With the
aggregation of various data, personal information and privacy might be divulged
and undermined (Chen & Cheung, 2017). Journalists have revealed that it is
surprisingly easy to obtain private personal information in China. Thus, in a
context where it is unclear how companies and government are sharing data with
each other, journalists and civil society advocates have expressed concerns about
the risks related to data security (Meissner, 2017). Second, while state and
commercial entities have exponentially increased their capabilities to monitor the
populace, the understanding and ability of citizens to hold them accountable
(e.g., by counter-surveillance and sousveillance) has diminished. The absence of a
civil society further enhances the information asymmetry between those holding
the data and ordinary people. A third question concerns the difficulty of
integrating separated platforms and tools into an all-encompassing system. It has
been found that some companies and disaggregated security agencies are
unwilling to be integrated or share data with others, leading to a concern that the
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                            435

immense scope and complexity of this infrastructure’s development may
eventually backfire and weaken the state’s capacity to manage society (Hoffman,
2017). Additionally, the SCS is currently a simple showcase of credit information
(e.g., the blacklist) rather than displaying a sophisticated and predictive approach.
Thus, it is unclear how the aggregation of data can be used for automated and
computational analysis, and how big data analytics empower the government to
advance its surveillance capacity.
     The observed activities of the state in the case of China also suggest that
when states participate in establishing new surveillance efforts, they do so for
reasons including but far beyond the narrow confines of advancing political
censorship. Increasingly, exercising state power includes drawing upon the same
surveillance–analytics tools that have been deployed widely in the business and
marketing sectors. In addition to the national SCS, the Chinese government has
recently proposed to build a “Belt and Road Initiative” SCS with 65 other
countries in Asia, Africa, and Europe. The official purpose is to establish a trans-
national credit system that secures international trade and economic relations
among nations (Xinhua, 2016a). Coincidentally, in September 2017, Alibaba
founder Jack Ma in consultation with the Prime Minister of Canada has urged the
Canadian government to grant expedited visas for Chinese visitors by using
Alibaba’s Sesame credit rating platform (People’s Daily, 2017). Thus, in addition
to building a national SCS for China, these state and high-tech firms are also
encouraging other nations to accept and even adopt their state surveillance
infrastructure.

Fan Liang, M.Sc., Doctoral Student, Department of Communication Studies,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
Vishnupriya Das, M.Sc., Doctoral Student, Department of Communication
Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
Nadiya Kostyuk, M.Sc., Doctoral Student, Department of Political Science,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States; Ford School of Public
Policy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
Muzammil M. Hussain, Ph.D., Faculty Associate, ISR Center for Political Studies,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; Assistant Professor, Department of
Communication Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI [mzmmlh@u-
mich.edu].


                                              Notes

1. Contact the authors for a full list of the keywords.
2. State Council Notice Clearing “Triangular Debts” across the Country. http://www.gov.cn/
   zhengce/content/2010-12/17/content_2477.htm.
3. The Report of the 16th Party Congress. http://cpc.people.com.cn/GB/64162/64168/64569/65444/
   4429125.html.
4. NDRC is a macroeconomic management agency under the Chinese State Council, which aims to
   formulate and implement strategies of national economic and social development, annual plans,
   medium and long-term development plans. See http://en.ndrc.gov.cn/.
436                                                                                Policy & Internet, 10:4

5. http://credit.zhaoqing.gov.cn/u/cms/www/201607/12181740yqys.pdf.
6. Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening and Regulating the List of Incentives for Promise-
   keeping and Joint Punishment Systems for Trust-Breaking. http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2017-11/
   03/content_5237087.htm.


                                              References

Andrejevic, M., and K. Gates. 2014. “Big Data Surveillance: Introduction.” Surveillance & Society 12 (2):
    185–96.
Ball, K.S., and D.M. Wood. 2013. “Political Economies of Surveillance.” Surveillance & Society 11 (1/2):
      1–3.
CAICT (China Academy of Information and Communications Technology). 2017. “Report of the Big
    Data Development in China (Zhongguo Dashuju Fazhan Diaocha Baogao).” CAICT. China
    Academy of Information and Communications Technology. March 1. https://www.google.com/url?
    sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&ved=0ahUKEwi0tJvAgsHXAhVq0oMKHTiX-
    BoAQFggtMAE&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.caict.ac.cn%2Fkxyj%2Fqwfb%2Fztbg%2F201703%
    2FP020170327603296651223.pdf&usg=AOvVaw2LnE8fzw48KbmStFVdQFuY.
Caixin. 2016. “Sesame Credit: Less Than Twenty Percent of Data Come From Alibaba (Zhima Xinyong:
     Ali Shujuyuan Jiangzhi Buzu Liangcheng).” Caixin. April 29. http://finance.caixin.com/2016-04-
     29/100938521.html.
CCTV. 2016. “NDRC and Alibaba Establish Business Credit System (Guojia Fagaiwei Yu Alibaba
   Gongjian Shangwulingyu Chengxintixi Jianshe).” CCTV. December 2. http://jingji.cctv.com/
   2016/12/02/ARTIzfLPF9czN0EvELy9xAsK161202.shtml.
Chen, Y., and A.S. Cheung. 2017. “The Transparent Self Under Big Data Profiling: Privacy and Chinese
    Legislation on the Social Credit System.” Working Paper, University of Hong Kong.
Clover, C. 2016. “China: When Big Data Meets Big Brother.” Financial Times. January 19. https://www.
    ft.com/content/b5b13a5e-b847-11e5-b151-8e15c9a029fb.
Collier, D. 2011. “Understanding Process Tracing.” PS: Political Science & Politics 44 (4): 823–30.
CCP Central Committee General Office, State Council General Office. 2016. “Opinions concerning
   Accelerating the Construction of Credit Supervision, Warning and Punishment Mechanisms for
   Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking (Guanyu Jiakuai Tuijin Shixin Beizhixingren
   Xinyong Jiandu, Jingshi He Chengjie Jizhi Jianshe De Yijian).” 1–4. http://www.xinhuanet.com/
   politics/2016-09/25/c_1119620719.htm.
Creemers, R. 2017. “Cyber China: Upgrading Propaganda, Public Opinion Work and Social
    Management for the Twenty-First Century.” Journal of Contemporary China 26 (103): 85–100.
Diab, R.S. 2017. “Becoming-Infrastructure: Datafication, Deactivation and the Social Credit System.”
     Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies 1 (1): 1–23.
Fuchs, C., K. Boersma, A. Albrechtslund, and M. Sandoval, eds. 2013. Internet and Surveillance: The
    Challenges of Web 2.0 and Social Media. London: Routledge.
Gates, K.A. 2011. Our Biometric Future: Facial Recognition Technology and the Culture of Surveillance. New
    York: NYU Press.
Haggerty, K.D., and R.V. Ericson. 2000. “The Surveillant Assemblage.” The British Journal of Sociology
    51 (4): 605–22.
Han, J. 2014. “The Meaning and Extension of Social Credit System.” China’s Reform Daily. July 28.
    http://www.crd.net.cn/2014-07/28/content_12207041.htm.
Hoffman, S. 2017. “Managing the State: Social Credit, Surveillance and the CCP’s Plan for China.”
    China Brief Volume 17 (11): 21–7.
Hornby, L. 2016. “China Reverts to ‘Grid Management’ to Monitor Citizens’ Lives.” Financial Times.
    April 3. https://www.ft.com/content/bf6a67c6-940e-11e5-bd82-c1fb87bef7af.
Lin, H. 2003. “The Definition and Attributes of Credit and the Construction of China’s Credit System
     (Xinyong De Dingyi He Shuxing Yu Zhongguo Xinyong Zhidu Jianshe).” Fujian Finance 10: 1–4.
Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance                                    437

Liu, Y., J. He, M. Guo, Q. Yang, and X. Zhang. 2014. “An Overview of Big Data Industry in China.”
     China Communications 11 (12): 1–10.
Lyon, D. 2007. Surveillance Studies: An Overview. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Lyon, D. 2014. “Surveillance, Snowden, and Big Data: Capacities, Consequences, Critique.” Big Data &
    Society 1 (2): 1–13.
Lyon, D. 2016. “Big Dataveillance: Emerging Challenges.” Working Paper, Queen’s University.
Meissner, M. 2017. “China’s Social Credit System: A Big-Data Enabled Approach to Market Regulation
    With Broad Implications for Doing Business in China.” MERICS China Monitor. https://www.
    merics.org/fileadmin/templates/download/china-monitor/
    merics_ChinaMonitor_39_englisch_Web.pdf.
Meissner, M., and J. W€
                      ubbeke. 2016. “IT-Backed Authoritarianism: Information Technology Enhances
    Central Authority and Control Capacity Under Xi Jinping.” MERICS China Monitor. http://www.
    merics.org/de/redirect/merics-paper-on-china-no-1-chinas-core-executive/.
National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Ecology and Environment, People’s Bank
     of China, and Banking Regulatory Commission. 2013. “The Measures for the Evaluation of
     Enterprise Environmental Credit (for Trial Implementation) (Qiye Huanjing Xinyong Pingjia
     Banfa Shixing).” 1–20. http://www.mep.gov.cn/gkml/hbb/bwj/201401/t20140102_265940.htm.
People’s Daily. 2017. “Ma Yun Urges Canadian Prime Minister to Simplify Visas Application (Ma Yun
    Huyu Jianada Zongli Jianhua Qianzheng).” People’s Daily. September 27. http://travel.people.
    com.cn/n1/2017/0927/c41570-29561675.html.
Plantin, J.C., C. Lagoze, P.N. Edwards, and C. Sandvig. 2016. “Infrastructure Studies Meet Platform
     Studies in the Age of Google and Facebook.” New Media & Society 20 (1): 1–18.
Schneier, B. 2015. Data and Goliath. The Hidden Battles to Collect Your Data and Control Your World. New
    York: W.W. Norton & Company, Inc.
Shi, X. 2007. “On Evolution of the Concept of Credit (Lun Xinyong Gainian De Lishi Yanjing).” Journal
     of Peking University 44 (6): 120–25.
Shipan, C.R., and C. Volden. 2008. “The Mechanisms of Policy Diffusion.” American Journal of Political
     Science 52 (4): 840–57.
Shorey, S., and P. Howard. 2016. “Automation, Algorithms, and Politics| Automation, Big Data and
    Politics: A Research Review.” International Journal of Communication 10: 5032–55.
State Council. 2014. “Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020)
     (Shehui Yinyong Tixi Jianshe Guihua Gangyao).” 1–17. http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/
     2014-06/27/content_8913.htm.
State Council. 2016. "State Council Guiding Opinions concerning Establishing and Perfecting Incentives
     for Promise-keeping and Joint Punishment Systems for Trust-Breaking, and Accelerating the
     Construction of Social Sincerity (Guowuyuan Guanyu Jianliwanshan Shouxin Lianhe Jili he Shixin
     Lianhe Chengjie Zhidu, Jiakuai Tuijin Shehui Chengxin Jianshe De Zhidao Yijian).” 1–4. http://
     www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2016-06/12/content_5081222.htm.
State Council. 2017. "Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening and Regulating the List of Incentives
     for Promise-keeping and Joint Punishment Systems for Trust-Breaking (Guanyu Jiaqiang he
     Guifan Shouxin Lianhe Jili he Shixin Lianhe Chengjie Duixiang Mingdan Guanli Gongzuo de
     Zhidao Yijian).” 1–5. http://www.ndrc.gov.cn/zcfb/gfxwj/201711/t20171103_866289.html.
State Council General Office. 2007. "State Council General Office Some Opinions Concerning the
     Construction of a Social Credit System (Guowuyuan Bangongting Guanyu Shehui Xinyong Tixi
     Jianshe De Ruogan Yijian).” 1–3. http://www.gov.cn/zwgk/2007-04/02/content_569314.htm.
State Council General Office. 2016. "Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening the Construction of a
     Personal Sincerity System (Guanyu Jiaqiang Geren Chengxin Tixi Jianshe De Zhidao Yijian).” 1–3.
     http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2016-12/30/content_5154830.htm.
Trottier, D. 2016. Social Media as Surveillance: Rethinking Visibility in a Converging World. London:
     Routledge.
Tufekci, Z. 2014. “Engineering the Public: Big Data, Surveillance and Computational Politics.” First
    Monday 19 (7): 1–16.
438                                                                          Policy & Internet, 10:4

Van Dijck, J. 2014. “Datafication, Dataism and Dataveillance: Big Data Between Scientific Paradigm
    and Ideology.” Surveillance & Society 12 (2): 197–208.
Xinhua. 2016a. “2016 China (Ningxia) ‘One Belt and One Road’ Credit Forum Held in Yinchuan City
    (Zhongguo Ningxia Yidai Yilu Xinyong Luntan zai Yinchuan Juxing).” Xinhua. September 30.
    http://www.xinhuanet.com/politics/2016-09/30/c_129306830.htm.
Xinhua. 2016b. “Credit China Media Alliance Was Founded in Beijing (Xinyong Zhongguo Meiti
    Lianmeng Chengli Yishi Zai Jing Juxing).” Xinhua. June 14. http://news.xinhuanet.com/fortune/
    2016-06/14/c_129061092.htm.
Xinhua. 2017. “The National Credit Information Sharing Platform Has Collected Over 10.7 Billion
    Pieces of Information (Quanguo Xinyong Xinxi Gongxiang Pingtai Guijie Xinxi Chao 107 Yitiao).”
    Xinhua. November 11. http://news.xinhuanet.com/2017-11/15/c_1121959314.htm.
Yu, S. 2016. “Analyzing the Process of Social Credit System Construction in China (Woguo Shehui
     Xinyong Tixi Jianshe De Jincheng Yanjiu).” Tribune of Study 32 (2): 14–7.
Zhang, T., B. Sun, and Y. Zeng. 2015. “Using Big Data Theory to Establish a New Standard for Social
    Credit System (Yong Dashuju Yuanli Jianli Shehui Xinyong Tixi Xinbiaozhun).” Information China
    10: 94–5.
Zhang, Z. 2016. “Institutional Construction for Social Credit System in the Era of Big Data (Dashuju
    Shidai Shehui Chengxin Tixi De Zhidu Jianshe).” Credit Reference 9 (212): 58–61.
                                                                    Appendix



                                                    Table A: Key Policy Documents on China’s SCS

English Name                                                  Chinese Name                                         Releasing Agencies             Date

1989–2014
  Issuing announcement on the Construction of     关于建立企业、事业单位和社会团体统一代码标                            State Council                                  1989
   a Unified Social Credit Number System for       识制度报告的通知
   Enterprise, Public Institutions, and Social
   Organizations
  State Council Announcement Clearing             国务院关于在全国范围内开展清理“三角债”工                            State Council                                  1990
   “Triangular Debts” across the Country           作的通知
  State Council Opinions concerning Clearing      关于继续组织清理“三角债”的意见                                 State Council                                  1991
   “Triangular Debts”
  The Outline of Citizen Ethics Construction      公民道德建设实施纲要                                       Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central          2001
   Program                                                                                           Committee General Office
  Guiding Opinions Strengthening the Credit       关于加强中小企业信用管理工作的若干意见                              State Administration for Industry and          2001
   Management of Small and Medium                                                                    Commerce etc.
   Enterprises
  Issuing announcement on Accelerating the        关于加快建立律师诚信制度的通知                                  Ministry of Justice                            2002
                                                                                                                                                          Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




   Construction of Lawyer Credit System
  Issuing announcement on Accelerating the        关于加快建立建筑市场有关企业和专业技术人员                            Housing and Urban-Rural Development            2002
   Construction of Credit File for Construction    信用档案的通知
   Enterprises and Technical Staff
  Issuing announcement on Constructing            关于建立房地产企业及执(从)业人员信用档案系                           Housing and Urban-Rural Development            2002
   Credit File for Real Estate Business Staff      统的通知
  Issuing announcement on Constructing            关于加强乡镇企业信用管理工作的意见                                Ministry of Agriculture                        2002
   Credit Management of Township and
   Village Enterprises
  The Report of the 16th National Congress of     十六大报道                                            CCP Central Committee General Office           2002
   the CCP
  Issuing announcement on Undertaking the         关于联合开展“共铸诚信”活动的通知                                General Office, Central Commission for         2003
                                                                                                                                                          439




                                                                                                                                            (Continued)
                                                           Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                          440



English Name                                              Chinese Name                         Releasing Agencies                 Date

  Construction of Honest Activity                                                  Guiding Cultural and Ethical Progress etc.
 Guiding Opinions Undertaking the                 关于开展社会诚信宣传教育的工作意见              Publicity Department, CCP Central Committee      2003
  Propaganda and Education of Social Credit                                        etc.
 Issuing announcement on Strengthening the        关于加强地方财政部门对中小企业信用担保机构          Ministry of Finance                              2003
  Financial Management and Policy Support          财务管理和政策支持若干问题的通知
  to SME Credit Guarantee Agencies by Local
  Financial Departments
 Guiding Opinions Implementing the Credit         关于推行企业劳动保障诚信制度的指导意见            Ministry of Human Resources and Social           2003
  System for Enterprise Labor and Social                                          Security
  Security
 Issuing announcement on Further Promoting        关于进一步推动和完善房地产信用档案系统建设          Housing and Urban-Rural Development              2003
  and Completing the Real Estate Credit File       的通知
  System
 Trial Measure on Tax Credit Rating               纳税信用等级评定管理试行办法                 State Administration of Taxation                 2003
  Management
 Guiding Opinions on the Implementation of        关于对企业实行信用分类监管的意见               State Administration for Industry and            2003
  Credit Classification Regulation of                                              Commerce
  Enterprises
 Issuing announcement on Further                  关于进一步加强中小学诚信教育的通知              Ministry of Education                            2004
  Strengthening Credit Education in Middle
  and Primary Schools
 The Outline of Credit Education (for Trial       诚信教育大纲(试行)                     Ministry of Human Resources and Social           2004
  Implementation)                                                                 Security
 The Pilot Work Plan for the Construction of      食品安全信用体系建设试点工作方案               China Food and Drug Administration               2004
  Food Safety Credit System
 The Temporary Regulation on the                  药品安全信用分类管理暂行规定                 China Food and Drug Administration               2004
  Classification Management of Drug Safety
  Credit
 Issuing announcement on the Establishment        关于跨省区或规模较大的中小企业信用担保机构          NDRC                                             2005
  and Change of Interprovincial or Large-scale     设立与变更有关事项的通知
  SME Credit Guarantee Agencies
 Issuing announcement on Undertaking Self-        关于开展民办非企业单位自律与诚信建设活动的          Ministry of Civil Affairs                        2005
  discipline and Credit Construction Activities    通知
                                                                                                                                          Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                            (Continued)
                                                         Table A (Continued)

English Name                                            Chinese Name                         Releasing Agencies              Date

  for Private NonEnterprise Organizations
 Issuing announcement on Further                 关于进一步深入开展民办非企业单位自律与诚信         Ministry of Civil Affairs                     2005
  Undertaking Self-discipline and Credit          建设活动的通知
  Construction Activities for Private
  NonEnterprise Organizations
 Issuing announcement on Promoting the           关于加快推进建筑市场信用体系建设工作的意见         Housing and Urban-Rural Development           2005
  Construction of Credit System for the
  Construction Market
 Issuing announcement on Further                 关于进一步加强保险业诚信建设的通知             China Insurance Regulatory Commission         2005
  Strengthening the Construction of Credit for
  Insurance Field
 Issuing announcement on Strengthening the       关于加强中小企业信用担保体系建设意见的通知         State Council General Office                  2006
  Construction of Credit Guarantee for Small
  and Medium Enterprises
 Guiding Opinions Strengthening the              关于加强中小企业信用担保体系建设的意见           NDRC etc.                                     2006
  Construction of Credit Guarantee for Small
  and Medium Enterprises
 Issuing announcement on Undertaking SME         关于合作开展中小企业贷款与信用担保体系建设         NDRC etc.                                     2006
  Loan and Credit Guarantee System                工作的通知
                                                                                                                                     Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




  Construction
 Issuing announcement on SME Loan and            关于加强中小企业信用担保体系建设有关问题的         NDRC etc.                                     2006
  Credit Guarantee System Construction            通知
 The Credit Evaluation Methods of Road           道路运输企业质量信誉考核办法(试行)            Ministry of Transport                         2006
  Transport (for Trial Implementation)
 Issuing announcement on Guiding Opinions        关于印发建立公路建设市场信用体系的指导意见         Ministry of Transport                         2006
  Constructing Market Credit System of Road       的通知
  Construction
 Issuing announcement on Creating National       关于开展创建全国诚信守法乡镇企业活动的通知         Ministry of Agriculture                       2006
  Credit and Law-abiding Township and
  Village Enterprises
 Issuing announcement on Issuing the             商务领域信用信息管理办法                  Ministry of Commerce                          2006
  Administrative Measures for the Credit
  Information in the Commercial Field
                                                                                                                                     441




                                                                                                                       (Continued)
                                                          Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                              442



English Name                                             Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                    Date

 Guiding Opinions Deeply Undertaking              关于深入开展“守合同重信用”活动的若干意见         State Administration for Industry and                 2006
  Activity of “Follow the Contract and                                            Commerce
  Emphasize Credit“
 Guiding Opinions Strengthening the               关于加强企业质量信用监管工作的意见             General Administration of Quality Supervision,        2006
  Supervision of Enterprises Quality Credit                                       Inspection and Quarantine Home
 State Council General Office Some Opinions       国务院办公厅关于社会信用体系建设的若干意见         State Council General Office                          2007
  concerning the Construction of a SCS
 Issuing announcement on Guiding Opinions         关于印发深化中小企业贷款与信用担保体系建设         NDRC and China Development Bank                       2007
  Deeply Promoting SME Loan and Credit             工作的指导意见的通知
  Guarantee System Construction
 Decision on Establishing Credit Management       关于在国家科技计划管理中建立信用管理制度的         Ministry of Science and Technology                    2007
  System in the Management of National             决定
  Science and Technology Programs
 Issuing announcement on Further Exerting         关于进一步发挥信用保险作用支持高新技术企业         Ministry of Science and Technology                    2007
  the Role of Credit Insurance in Supporting       发展有关问题的通知
  the Development of Hi-tech Enterprises
 Issuing announcement on Undertaking              关于开展民办职业介绍机构信用等级评定工作的         Ministry of Human Resources and Social                2007
  Credit Rating Evaluation for Private             通知                            Security
  Employment Agencies
 The Management Measures on Construction          建筑市场诚信行为信息管理办法                Housing and Urban-Rural Development                   2007
  Market Credit
 Announcement on Jointly Promoting the            关于共同推进长江三角洲区域建筑市场信用信息         Housing and Urban-Rural Development                   2007
  Construction of Credit Information Platform      平台建设工作的通知
  in the Construction Market of the Yangtze
  River Delta
 State Council General Office Notice on           国务院办公厅关于建立国务院社会信用体系建设         State Council                                         2007
  Constructing the Ministerial-Joint Meeting       部际联席会议制度的通知
  System of SCS of the State Council
 Issuing announcement on Further Promoting        关于继续做好中小企业信用担保机构免征营业税         Ministry of Industry and Information                  2009
  the Exemption from Business Tax for SME          有关问题的通知                       Technology etc.
  Credit Guarantee Agencies
 The Report of the Sixth Plenary Session of the   十七届六中全会报告                     The Third Plenary Session of the 16th Central         2011
  17th CPC Central Committee                                                      Committee
                                                                                                                                              Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                                (Continued)
                                                              Table A (Continued)

English Name                                                 Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies           Date

  The 12th Five-Year Plan for the National         中华人民共和国国民经济和社会发展第十二个五            National People’s Congress                   2011
   Economic and Social Development of the           年规划纲要
   People’s Republic of China
  CCP Central Committee and State Council          中共中央国务院关于加强和创新社会管理的意见            State Council                                2011
   Opinions concerning Strengthening and
   Innovating Social Management
  State Council on Agreeing to Adjust the          国务院关于同意调整社会信用体系建设部际联席            State Council                                2012
   Construction of the Ministerial-Joint Meeting    会议职责和成员单位的批复
   System of SCS
  The Decision on Major Issues concerning          中共中央关于全面深化改革若干重大问题的决定            CCP Central Committee                        2013
   Comprehensively Deepening Reforms
  Telecommunications and Internet Personal         电信和互联网用户个人信息保护规定                 Ministry of Industry and Information         2013
   User Data Protection Regulations                                                   Technology
  Notice of the General Office of the State        国务院机构改革和职能转变方案                   State Council                                2013
   Council on Dividing the Tasks for
   Implementation of the Plan for Institutional
   Reform and Functional Transformation of
   the State Council
  Announcement of the List of Dishonest            关于公布失信被执行人名单信息的若干规定              The Supreme People’s Court                   2013
                                                                                                                                         Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




   Persons Subject to Enforcement
  The Decision on Major Issues concerning          中共中央关于全面深化改革若干重大问题的决定            The CCP Central Committee                    2013
   Comprehensively Deepening Reforms                (十八届三中全会)
  Some Regulations concerning Publishing           最高人民法院关于公布失信被执行人名单信息的            The Supreme People’s Court                   2013
   Name List Information of Persons Subject to      若干规定
   Enforcement for Trust-Breaking
  Regulation on the Administration of Credit       征信业管理条例                          State Council                                2013
   Investigation Industry
2014–2020 main documents
  Planning Outline for the Construction of a       社会信用体系建设规划纲要(2014—2020年)         State Council                                2014
   Social Credit System (2014–2020)
  Division of Tasks for the Social Credit System   ⟪社会信用体系建设规划纲要(2014—2020年)⟫       State Council                                2014
   Construction Plan                                任务分工
  Announcement on Implementing the Outline         关于贯彻落实社会信用体系建设规划纲要 加强当           NDRC                                         2014
                                                                                                                                         443




                                                                                                                           (Continued)
                                                          Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                             444



English Name                                             Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                   Date

  for the Construction of a SCS, Strengthening    前社会信用体系建设的通知
  Current the Construction of a SCS
 Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening       工业和信息化部关于加强电信和互联网行业网络          Ministry of Industry and Information                 2014
  Cybersecurity Work in the                       安全工作的指导意见                      Technology
  Telecommunications and Internet Sectors
 Guiding Opinions concerning Using Secure        关于应用安全可控信息技术加强银行业网络安全          Banking Regulatory Commission etc.                   2014
  and Controllable Information Technology         和信息化建设的指导意见
  and Strengthening Cybersecurity and
  Informatization in the Banking Sector
 Opinions Undertaking the Activities of          关于深入开展“诚信兴商”活动的意见              Publicity Department, CCP Central Committee          2014
  “Developing Vigorous Business with Food                                         etc.
  Credit“
 Three Year Key Tasks in the Construction of     社会信用体系建设三年重点工作任务(2014—         State Council                                        2014
  the SCS (2014–2016)                             2016)
 Opinions Promoting the Institutionalization     关于推进诚信建设制度化的意见                 General Office, Central Commission for               2014
  of Credit Construction                                                          Guiding Cultural and Ethical Progress etc.
 Issuing the Industry Standards on the           征信机构信息安全规范                     People’s Bank of China (PBC)                         2014
  Information Security Standards for Credit
  Reporting Institutions
 Comprehensive Plan for Introducing a            法人和其他组织统一社会信用代码制度建设总体          State Council                                        2015
  Unified Social Credit Number System for         方案的通知
  Legal Entities and Other Organizations
 Announcement on Effective Preparation for       关于做好个人征信业务准备工作的通知              PBC                                                  2015
  Individual Credit Collection
 Issuing the Key Tasks of 2015 Social Credit     关于印发2015年社会信用体系建设工作要点的通        NDRC and PBC                                         2015
  Construction                                    知
 Notice of the People’s Bank of China on         金融信用信息基础数据库用户管理规范              PBC                                                  2015
  Issuing the Industry Standards on Standards
  of User Management in Basic Financial
  Credit Information Database
 Opinions Constructing Support Platform for      关于加快构建大众创业万众创新支撑平台的指导          State Council                                        2015
  Encourage People to do Business Creatively      意见
  and Drive Innovation
                                                                                                                                             Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                               (Continued)
                                                          Table A (Continued)

English Name                                             Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                 Date

  Opinions Strengthening the Administration      关于加强互联网领域侵权假冒行为治理的意见           State Council General Office                       2015
   of Infringement and Counterfeiting
   Behaviors on the Internet
  Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening      关于加强个人诚信体系建设的指导意见              State Council General Office                       2016
   the Construction of a Personal Sincerity
   System
  Credit Information Catalogue of the National   全国信用信息共享平台信用信息目录               NDRC                                               2016
   Credit Information Sharing Platform
  Guiding Opinions of the State Council on       关于加强政务诚信建设的指导意见                State Council                                      2016
   Strengthening the Government Integrity
   Construction
  Announcement on Implementing the               关于贯彻落实法人和其他组织统一社会信用代码          General Administration of Quality Supervision,     2016
   Construction of a Unified Social Credit        制度建设总体方案有关事项的通知                Inspection and Quarantine
   Number System for Legal Person and Other
   Social Organizations
  Interim Measures of Credit Rating Industry     信用评级业管理暂行办法 (征求意见稿)            PBC etc.                                           2017
   (Consultation Paper)
Related documents
  Guiding Opinions on the Promotion of Fair      关于促进市场公平竞争维护市场正常秩序的若干          State Council                                      2014
                                                                                                                                           Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




   Market Competition and Upholding the           意见
   Normal Market Order
  State Council Guiding Opinions                 国务院关于“先照后证”改革后 加强事中事后监         State Council                                      2015
   Strengthening Supervision after the            管的意见
   “Business License First and Regulatory
   License Later” Reform
  Some Opinions concerning the Use of Big        国务院办公厅关于运用大数据加强对市场主体服          State Council General Office                       2015
   Data to Strengthen Service to and              务和监管的若干意见
   Supervision of Market Subjects
  Outline of Operations to Stimulate the         国务院关于印发促进大数据发展行动纲要的通知          State Council                                      2015
   Development of Big Data
  State Council Guiding Opinions concerning      国务院关于积极推进”互联网+”行动的指导意          State Council                                      2015
   Vigorously Moving Forward the “Internet        见
   Plus” Plan
                                                                                                                                           445




                                                                                                                             (Continued)
                                                         Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                           446



English Name                                            Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                  Date

 Some Opinions concerning Deepening             中共中央国务院关于深化体制机制改革加快实施          State Council                                       2015
  Structural and Mechanism Reform and            创新驱动发展战略的若干意见
  Accelerating the Implementation of the
  Innovation-Driven Development Strategy
 Opinions concerning Stimulating the            国务院关于促进云计算创新发展培育信息产业新          State Council                                       2015
  Development of Cloud Computing                 业态的意见
  Innovation and Fostering New Business
  Models in the Information Industry
 The Overall Outline of Further Improving       关于进一步健全相关领域实名制登记制度的总体          Central Leading Team for Comprehensively            2016
  Real-name Registration System in Related       方案                              Deepening Reform
  Fields
 The 13th Five-Year Plan for the National       中华人民共和国国民经济和社会发展第十三个五          National People’s Congress                          2016
  Economic and Social Development of the         年规划纲要
  People’s Republic of China
 Outline of the National Informatization        国家信息化发展战略纲要                    CCP Central Committee General Office, State         2016
  Development Strategy                                                           Council General Office
 National Cyberspace Security Strategy          国家网络空间安全战略                     Cyberspace Administration                           2016
 Measures on the Administration of Internet     互联网直播服务管理规定                    Cyberspace Administration                           2016
  Live-streaming Services
 Mobile Internet Application Information        移动互联网应用程序信息服务管理规定              Cyberspace Administration                           2016
  Service Management Regulations
 Announcement of the State Council on           国务院关于印发“十三五”国家信息化规划的通          State Council                                       2016
  Printing and Distributing the State            知
  Informationization Plan for the Thirteenth
  Five year Plan
 Guiding Opinions of the State Council on       国务院关于加快“互联网 + 政务服务”工作的指        State Council                                       2016
  Accelerating the Promotion of the “Internet    导意见
  + Government Services“ Work
 The Pilot Implementation of Promoting the      推进“互联网 + 政务服务”开展信息惠民试点实        NDRC etc.                                           2016
  “Internet + Government Services“ and           施方案
  Undertaking Citizen’s Benefit from
  Information
 Notice of the General Office of the State      国务院办公厅关于印发互联网金融风险专项整治          State Council General Office                        2016
                                                                                                                                           Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                             (Continued)
                                                             Table A (Continued)

English Name                                                Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                Date

   Council on Issuing the Implementation Plan        工作实施方案的通知
   for Special Rectification on Risks in Internet
   Finance
  Guiding Opinions of the General Office of the     关于加快推进“多证合一”改革的指导意见            State Council General Office                      2017
   State Council on Accelerating the
   Advancement of the Reform of “Integrating
   Certificates into One“
  Issuing announcement on Sharing Data of           关于实行行政审批中公民、企事业单位和社会组          State Commission Office for Public Sector         2017
   Citizens, Public Institutions, and Social         织基本信息共享的通知                      Reform
   Organization during Administrative
   Approval
  Reform of the “Five in One, One Code for One      关于加快推进“五证合一、一照一码”登记制度          State Council                                     2016
   License” Registration System                      改革
  Cybersecurity Law of the People’s Republic        中华人民共和国网络安全法                   National People’s Congress                        2017
   of China
  A Next Generation Artificial Intelligence         国务院关于印发新一代人工智能发展规划的通知          State Council                                     2017
   Development Plan
  Internet News Information Service                 互联网新闻信息服务管理规定                  Cyberspace Administration                         2017
   Management Regulations
                                                                                                                                             Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




  Report at 19th Party Congress of the CCP          十九大报告                          CCP Central Committee                             2017
Joint Reward and Punishment Systems
  Notice on Issuing the Memorandum on               关于对重大税收违法案件当事人实施联合惩戒措          NDRC etc.                                         2014
   Understanding on Taking Joint Punishment          施的合作备忘录
   for the Subjects in the Major Cases on Tax
   Law Violations
  Notice on Issuing the Cooperation                 失信企业协同监管和联合惩戒合作备忘录             State Administration for Industry and             2015
   Memorandum on the Coordinated                                                     Commerce etc.
   Supervision and Joint Punishment for
   Discredited Enterprises
  Notice on Issuing the Cooperation                 关于对违法失信上市公司相关责任主体实施联合          Securities Regulatory Commission                  2015
   Memorandum on the Coordinated                     惩戒的合作备忘录
   Supervision and Joint Punishment for
   Discredited Listed Enterprises
                                                                                                                                             447




                                                                                                                               (Continued)
                                                         Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                           448



English Name                                            Chinese Name                           Releasing Agencies                  Date

 Notice on Taking Joint Punishment Actions       关于对违法违规建设生产煤矿实施联合惩戒的通         NDRC etc.                                           2015
  against Coal Mines Engaging in                  知
  Construction and Production in Violation of
  the Laws and Regulations
 Several Provisions of the Supreme People’s      最高人民法院关于限制被执行人高消费及有关消         The Supreme Court                                   2015
  Court on Restricting High Consumption and       费的若干规定
  Relevant Consumption of Persons Subject to
  Enforcement
 The Management Method of Joint                  农资领域严重失信联合惩戒对象名单管理办法          Ministry of Agriculture                             2015
  Punishment List for Seriously Trust-            (试行)
  breaking Subjects in Agricultural Field (for
  Trial Implementation)
 Opinions concerning Accelerating the            关于加快推进失信被执行人信用监督、警示和惩         CCP Central Committee General Office, State         2016
  Construction of Credit Supervision, Warning     戒机制建设的意见                      Council General Office
  and Punishment Mechanisms for Persons
  Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking
 State Council Guiding Opinions concerning       关于建立完善守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒制度         State Council                                       2016
  Establishing and Perfecting Incentives for      加快推进社会诚信建设的指导意见
  Promise-keeping and Joint Punishment
  Systems for Trust-Breaking, and
  Accelerating the Construction of Social
  Sincerity
 Issuing the Cooperation Memorandum on the       关于对失信被执行人实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录         The Supreme Court etc.                              2016
  Joint Punishment for Trust-breaking Subjects
 Issuing the Cooperation Memorandum on           关于对环境保护领域失信生产经营单位及其有关         NDRC etc.                                           2016
  Undertaking Joint Punishment for Trust-         人员开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录
  breaking Production and Operation Units
  and Persons in the Field of Environmental
  Protection
 Issuing the Cooperation Memorandum on           关于对食品药品生产经营严重失信者开展联合惩         NDRC etc.                                           2016
  Undertaking Joint Punishment for Seriously      戒的合作备忘录
  Trust-breaking Subjects in the Production
  and Operation of Food and Drugs
                                                                                                                                           Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                             (Continued)
                                                        Table A (Continued)

English Name                                           Chinese Name                        Releasing Agencies                    Date

 Issuing the Cooperation Memorandum on          关于对严重质量违法失信行为当事人实施联合惩         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Undertaking Joint Punishment for Seriously     戒的合作备忘录
  Trust-breaking Subjects in the Production
  Quality
 Memorandum on the Joint Financial and          关于对财政性资金管理使用领域相关失信责任主         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Administrative Punishment of Dishonest         体实施联合惩戒的合作备忘录
  Behavior
 Action Plan on Joint Punishment for            关于对电子商务及分享经济领域炒信行为相关失         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Dereliction of Credit in E-commerce and        信主体实施联合惩戒的行动计划
  Sharing Economy Industry
 Announcement on concerning the Joint           关于在招标投标活动中对失信被执行人实施联合         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Punishment for the Executed Decedent in        惩戒的通知
  Bidding and Tendering Activities
 Issuing the Memorandum on Implementing         关于对纳税信用A级纳税人实施联合激励措施的         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Incentives for Class A Taxpayers with Tax      合作备忘录
  Credit
 Action Plan on Implementing Excellent          关于实施优秀青年志愿者守信联合激励加快推进         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Young Volunteers Credit and Jointly            青年信用体系建设的行动计划
  Incentives for the Construction of a Youth
                                                                                                                                         Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




  Credit System
 Issuing the Memorandum on the                  关于对海关高级认证企业实施联合激励的合作备         NDRC etc.                                          2016
  Implementation of Joint Incentives for High    忘录
  Level Certification Enterprises of the
  Customs
 Measures for the Implementation of Joint       对安全生产领域信行为开展联合惩戒的实施办法         General Administration of Quality Supervision,     2017
  Punishment in Production Safety Field                                        Inspection and Quarantine
 Guiding Opinions concerning Strengthening      关于加强和规范守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒对         NDRC, PBC                                          2017
  and Regulating the List of Incentives for      象名单管理工作的指导意见
  Promise-keeping and Joint Punishment
  Systems for Trust-Breaking
 Issuing the Memorandum on Joint                关于对安全生产领域失信生产经营单位及其有关         General Administration of Quality Supervision,     2017
  Punishment for Trust-breaking Production       人员开展联合惩戒的合作备忘录                Inspection and Quarantine
  and Operation Units and Related Persons in
                                                                                                                                         449




                                                                                                                           (Continued)
                                                           Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                            450



English Name                                              Chinese Name                         Releasing Agencies                   Date

   the Field of Safety Production
Specific Fields
  Ministry of Agriculture Guiding Opinion on     农业部关于加快推进农产品质量安全信用体系建           Ministry of Agriculture                            2014
   Accelerating the Construction of Credit        设的指导意见
   System of Agricultural Products Quality and
   Safety
  The Measures for the Administration of         检疫企业信用管理办法                      General Administration of Quality Supervision,     2014
   Credit of Inspection and Quarantine                                            Inspection and Quarantine
   Enterprises
  Guiding Opinions Strengthening the             关于加强企业安全生产诚信体系建设的指导意见           NDRC                                               2014
   Construction of Credit System of Safety
   Production in Enterprises
  Opinions Promoting Credit and Self-            关于推进行业协会商会诚信自律建设工作的意见           Ministry of Civil Affairs etc.                     2014
   discipline in Commerce Associations
  Interim Measures of the Customs of the         中华人民共和国海关企业信用管理暂行办法             General Administration of Customs                  2014
   People’s Republic of China for the
   Administration of Enterprise Credit
  Opinions Accelerating the Construction of      关于加快推进商务诚信建设工作的实施意见             Ministry of Commerce                               2014
   Commercial Credit
  Announcement of the State Administration of    纳税信用管理办法(试行)                    State Administration of Taxation                   2014
   Taxation on Issuing the Measures for Tax
   Credit Administration (for Trial
   Implementation)
  Guiding Opinions on the Construction of        关于我国物流业信用体系建设的指导意见              NDRC etc.                                          2014
   China’s Logistics Industry Credit System
  China’s Insurance Industry Credit System       中国保险业信用体系建设规划(2015－2020年)       Insurance Regulatory Commission and NDRC           2015
   Construction Plan 2015–2020
  Plan for Establishing China’s Automobile       汽车行业信用体系建设规划纲要(2015—2020年)      China Association of Automobile                    2015
   Industry Credit System                                                          Manufacturers
  Guiding Opinions on Promoting Healthy          关于促进互联网金融健康发展的指导意见              PBC etc.                                           2015
   Development of Internet Finance
  Several Issues on the Establishment of an      关于开展知识产权系统社会信用体系建设工作若           State Intellectual Property Office                 2016
   Intellectual Property SCS                      干事项
                                                                                                                                            Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                              (Continued)
                                                          Table A (Continued)

English Name                                             Chinese Name                        Releasing Agencies                   Date

 Issuing the Implementation Plan of              关于印发交通运输企业安全生产诚信体系建设实          Ministry of Transport                             2015
  Constructing Credit System in Production        施方案
  Safety of Transport Enterprises
 Ministry of Transport Several Opinions          交通运输部关于加强交通运输行业信用体系建设          Ministry of Transport                             2015
  Strengthening the Construction of Credit        的若干意见
  System in Transportation Industry
 Opinions of the People’s Bank of China on       关于全面推进中小企业和农村信用体系建设的意          PBC                                               2015
  Comprehensively Promoting the Building of       见
  the Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise
  Credit System and the Rural Credit System
 The Measures for the Evaluation of Enterprise   企业环境信用评价办法(试行)                 Ministry of Environmental Protection etc.         2015
  Environmental Credit (for Trial
  Implementation)
 Opinions Promoting Convenient Trading of        关于促进二手车便利交易的若干意见               State Council General Office                      2015
  Used Cars
 Guiding Opinions on Trust-Building in the       关于全面加强电子商务领域诚信建设的指导意见          NDRC etc.                                         2016
  Field of E-Commerce
 Opinions on Implementing an Energy              能源行业信用体系建设实施意见                 National Energy Administration                    2016
  Industry Credit System
                                                                                                                                          Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




 Tasks in Opinions on Implementing an            关于⟪能源行业信用体系建设实施意见(2016-        National Energy Administration                    2016
  Energy Industry Credit System (2016–2020)       2020年)⟫工作安排
 The Credit Rating Methods of Enterprise         企业劳动保障守法诚信等级评价办法               Ministry of Human Resources and Social            2016
  Labor and Social Security                                                       Security
 Issuing the Pilot Work Plan for the             快递业信用体系建设试点工作方案                State Post Bureau                                 2016
  Construction of Credit System in Courier
  Industry
 Measures for the Prevention and Punishment      高等学校预防与处理学术不端行为办法              Ministry of Education                             2016
  of Academic Misconducts in Institutions of
  Higher Education
 The Interim Provisions of the Record of         国家科技计划(专项、基金等)严重失信行为记录         Ministry of Science and Technology                2016
  Seriously Trust-breaking Behaviors of           暂行规定
  National Science and Technology Plan
  (special, fund, etc.)
                                                                                                                                          451




                                                                                                                            (Continued)
                                                           Table A (Continued)
                                                                                                                                            452



English Name                                              Chinese Name                        Releasing Agencies                    Date

 The Key Tasks of 2016 Credit Construction of    2016                            Ministry of Transport                              2016
  Transport Industry
 Announcement of the State Administration of     国家税务总局关于完善纳税信用管理有关事项的           State Administration of Taxation                   2016
  Taxation on Issues concerning Improving         公告
  Tax Credit Administration
 Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the           关于加强企业环境信用体系建设的指导意见             NDRC, Ministry of Environmental Protection         2016
  Construction of an Environmental Credit
  System for Companies
 Planning Outline for the Construction of        青年信用体系建设规划(2016-2020年)          Communist Youth League etc.                        2016
  Youth Social Credit System
 Questions Regarding the Inquiry and Use of      关于在政府采购活动中查询及使用信用记录有关           Ministry of Finance                                2016
  Credit History in Government Procurement        问题
  Activities
 Announcement on Issuing 2016 Special            关于印发2016网络市场监管专项行动方案的通知         State Administration for Industry and              2016
  Action Program of Internet Market                                                Commerce
  Regulation
 Guide Opinions Strengthening Credit             关于加强交通出行领域信用建设的指导意见             NDRC etc.                                          2017
  Construction in Transport Industry
 Announcement on Issuing the Joint               关于印发对税务等领域信用A级食品药品生产经           China Food and Drug Administration                 2017
  Incentives for A Level Food and Drug            营者实施联合激励措施的通知
  Producers in Tax and other fields
 Measures for the Management of Credit           水路运输市场信用信息管理办法(试行)              Ministry of Transport                              2017
  Information in Water Transport Market
  (Trial Implementation)
 Announcement on Shifting the Payment            关于将非银行支付机构网络支付业务由直连模式           PBC                                                2017
  Network of NonBank Agencies from Direct         迁移至网联平台处理的通知
  Connection to Networked Platform
 The Management Methods of Waterway              水路运输市场信用信息管理办法                  Ministry of Transport                              2017
  Market Credit Information
 Interim Measures Released on “Blacklists“ for   拖欠农民工工资“黑名单”管理暂行办法              Ministry of Human Resources and Social             2017
  Delaying Payment of Wages to Rural                                              Security
  Migrant Workers
 Announcement on Issuing the Guideline for       关于印发服务业诚信计量监督管理制度建设指南           General Administration of Quality Supervision,     2017
                                                                                                                                            Policy & Internet, 10:4




                                                                                                                              (Continued)
                                                        Table A (Continued)

English Name                                           Chinese Name                         Releasing Agencies        Date

  Establishing the System for the Supervision    的通知                            Inspection and Quarantine Home
  and Administration of Credit in the Service
  Industry
 The Management Measures of Civil Aviation      民航行业信用管理办法(试行)                Civil Aviation Authority                2017
  Credit (Trial Implementation)
 Them Management Methods of Statistical         统计从业人员统计信用档案管理办法(试行)          National Bureau of Statistics           2017
  Staff Statistics Credit File (Trial
  Implementation)
 Announcement on the Error Correction Work      关于进一步做好法人和其他组织统一社会信用代         NDRC etc.                               2017
  of a Unified Social Credit Number System       码信息回传和校核纠错工作的通知
  for Legal Entities and other Organizations
 Announcement on Securities Companies           关于证券公司接入中国人民银行征信系统相关事         Securities Regulatory Commission        2017
  Access the People’s Bank of China’s Credit     宜的通知
  Reference System
 The Management Methods of Railway              铁路旅客信用记录管理办法(试行)              China Railway                           2017
  Passenger Credit Record (Trial
  Implementation)
 The Operation and Management Methods of        国家企业信用信息公示系统使用运行管理办法          State Administration for Industry and   2017
  National Enterprise Credit Information         (试行)                           Commerce etc.
                                                                                                                             Liang et al.: China’s Social Credit System as State Surveillance




  Publicity System (Trial Implementation)
 Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the          关于加强对外经济合作领域信用体系建设的指导         NDRC etc.                               2017
  Construction of Credit in the Field of         意见
  Transnational Economic Cooperation
                                                                                                                             453
