MERICS
                                                                                                  March 3, 2021
CHINA
MONITOR                                                                                      Updated on May 9, 2022




  CHINA’S SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM IN 2021
  From fragmentation towards integration
  Katja Drinhausen and Vincent Brussee


  KEY FINDINGS

    The Social Credit System is part of Xi Jinping's
   	                                                           The Chinese government is aware of these issues
                                                               	
    vision for data-driven governance. Government               and has initiated steps to more clearly define
    organs across regions and administrative levels             “social credit”, establish practises and improve
    should join hands to create a coherent information          measures for credit repair. Work on a Social Cred-
    ecosystem. Data-sharing challenges continue to              it Law has started, but it may take years until core
    hamper this effort.                                         mechanisms become standardised nation-wide.

    There will not be a unified “Social Credit Score”          The private tech sector continues to be excluded
                                                               	
     that rates individual behaviour. An all-encom-             from the development of the official Social Cred-
     passing scoring system was not part of the original        it System. But payment and consumer platforms
     plan. Instead, efforts have been focused on the es-        like Alibaba’s Sesame Credit have created their own
     tablishment of comprehensive digital files that track      trust-rating initiatives.
     and document legal compliance. Pilot projects that
     used points-based systems to steer behaviour be-           The Social Credit System remains the least digi-
     yond what is legally required have been discontin-          tised of China’s tech-driven monitoring and sur-
     ued or limited to voluntary participation.                  veillance initiatives. It relies heavily on human in-
                                                                 vestigations, reports, and decisions. This also leaves
    The Social Credit System is a highly flexible tool          room for traditional vectors of individual and politi-
     that can quickly be applied to address new pol-             cal influence.
     icy priorities. During the Covid-19 pandemic, gov-
     ernment agencies rapidly issued a slew of directives       The party state will further build up, streamline
                                                               	
     to implement pandemic-related regulations.                 and integrate digital monitoring and surveil-
                                                                lance activities. More invasive domestic security
    The flexibility of the system also comes at a cost:        platforms and initiatives have advanced rapidly and
     fragmentation. The Social Credit System is regulated       with significantly fewer limitations than the Social
     by thousands of documents, but there is no clear defi-     Credit System.
     nition of “credit” and substantial regional differences
     exist in implementation and evaluation standards.

    The uneven implementation presents risks for
   	
    individuals and companies alike. They have to
    navigate various regulations, lists and rating sys-
    tems. There is an acute risk of “credit” becoming an
    arbitrary term that can be applied with dispropor-
    tionate punishments.
This MERICS China Monitor is part of a research project supported by a grant from the
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office.

MERICS is a research institute committed to the highest standards of organisational,
intellectual and personal integrity and independence. MERICS does not accept funding or
rewards of any kind that seek to control the direction, content, or findings of its research
and projects. MERICS retains sole editorial control over its ideas and products. All views,
positions, and conclusions expressed in our publications should be understood to be solely
those of the authors.




                                                                               MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 2
Building a unified Social Credit System is a challenge
Fragmentation is the cost of quick construction and adaptation




                                                 一处失信
                                                 处处受限




                                                                                            © MERICS
                                                                 CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 3
1. INTRODUCTION: THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM ENTERS A NEW STAGE

The year 2020 marked the end of a key construction phase of China’s Social Credit System
(SoCS) – one of the cornerstones of the Chinese party state’s quest for data-supported,
efficient rule. The general framework and key mechanisms have been established.
Numerous reports and planning documents have been drawn up to guide the SoCS into the
next phase, which aligns with the upcoming 14th Five-Year Plan (2021 – 2025).1

There is still dynamic development and debate about how it should be adjusted. It is crucial
to understand how this quickly evolving system works and anticipate how it will develop in
the coming years, as it will become a defining feature of Chinese governance over the next
decades. It also directly affects foreign actors with a presence in China.

The SoCS itself is not tasked with conducting political surveillance of individual behaviour.
Its role is more clearly limited in recent party and policy documents. Instead, these functions
and political needs are addressed by other domestic security systems. In addition, a variety
of commercial scoring systems have popped up across China, which operate independently
of the SoCS.

The SoCS is often envisioned as a fully digitised and data-driven system. And indeed,
digitalisation and informatisation are key items on China’s political agenda, with the
explicit goal to “use big data to modernise national governance”, a theme set to feature
prominently in the coming Five-Year Plan.2

But despite these lofty proclamations, 2020 also laid bare how lacking digitalisation still       The party state’s
is in certain areas. In practice, it serves as an umbrella term that can mean anything from       ambitions remain
simple operations such as digitising forms and uploading spreadsheets, to the use of big          clear: To expand,
data analysis to generate insights for policymaking and law enforcement.                          integrate and
                                                                                                  analyse existing
Nonetheless, the party state’s ambitions remain clear: To expand, integrate and analyse           data sources
existing data sources to improve and consolidate CCP rule. Despite current fragmentation,
this also spells the way forward for the continued evolution of the SoCS.



2. THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM IS LEGALLY AMBIGIOUS

International media coverage has often focused on 2020, the end date of the major policy
blueprint issued by the State Council in 2014, creating the impression that the SoCS
would spring into action as one integrated system by that year. But, despite the fact that
some of its key mechanisms have been in place for years, the SoCS today is not a unified,
standardised system. What is established today can best be described as a policy framework
that encompasses a large number of initiatives, or as a “system of systems.”

2.1 A BRIEF HISTORY: FROM FINANCIAL CREDIT TO SOCIO-POLITICAL PANACEA

The roots of the Social Credit System (SoCS) go back to the early 1990s as part of attempts
to develop personal banking and financial credit rating systems, especially to facilitate
lending in rural areas, where individuals and small enterprises often lacked documented
financial histories. The first blueprints of the SoCS were drafted in 2007 by a group of
government bodies.3 Since 2011, there has been a marked shift in the SoCS’s objectives from
financial credit rating system to panacea for a broad set of socio-political ills.



                                                                                 MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 4
Complaints that China is a “low trust” society have long been widespread: Chinese society
is seen as suffering from a moral vacuum as a result of the turbulent economic and
social changes since the beginning of reform and opening in 1978. The growing wealth in
economically developed regions came at a price, as they suffered most from insufficient
supervision of market actors, environmental and food safety scandals, violations of labour
law and IP rights as well as widespread corruption and rent-seeking (see exhibit 1 on SoCS
regional foci).
                                                                                                                                       Exhibit 1



  The development of the Social Credit System is marked by regional differences
  Economically developed regions publish the majority of documents

             Number of documents:
              0 – 10 10 – 20 20 – 30                30 – 40      >40



                                                                                                                        Heilongjiang



                                                                                                                          Jilin
                                                                                                Inner Mongolia
                                 Xinjiang
                                                                                                                Liaoning
                                                      Gansu                                                                Beijing
                                                                                                              Tianjin
                                                                                                  Hebei
                                                                           Ningxia       Shanxi
                                                    Qinghai                                            Shandong

                                                                                                                   Jiangsu
                                                                               Shaanxi     Henan
                                   Tibet
                                                                                                      Anhui              Shanghai
                                                                 Sichuan                   Hubei
                                                                            Chongqing
                                                                                                                         Zhejiang

                                                                                        Hunan      Jiangxi
                                                                           Guizhou                        Fujian

                                                              Yunnan
                                                                               Guangxi      Guangdong



                                                                            Hainan

                                                                                                                                            © MERICS


  Sources: MERICS SoCS database containing national and provincial documents from State Council and
  Credit China document depositories. Analysis of documents issued at provincial level, calculation by authors.




Since 2014, State- and Party Leader Xi Jinping declared “comprehensive law-based
governance” a top political priority. Ensuring that all individuals, market actors and
government organs play by the rules is seen as a prerequisite for stable economic growth –
and hence for social, political and regime stability.4

Within this broader political context, the Social Credit System’s main purpose has turned to
enforcement of existing laws and regulations. This significant expansion culminated in the
“Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014 – 2020)”, issued by
the Chinese State Council, and led to its most crucial period of construction.




                                                                                                     MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 5
Social credit has become a fixture of the new ideological canon of “Xi Jinping Thought on
Rule of Law”.5 In January 2021, the CCP’s Central Committee issued a new roadmap for
the “construction of a rule of law society” until 2025.6 It includes a section on the SoCS,
highlighting its importance for China’s legal development agenda as a supporting pillar of
the legal system.

2.2 FINDING THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM IN A REGULATORY JUNGLE

The broad range of policy goals projected on the system explains why what is generally
translated as “social credit” is not a clearly and legally defined concept. Documents and
discussions of the system contain a set of terms that range from financial creditworthiness
(征信) to broader trustworthiness, law-abiding behaviour, or even moral values such as
honesty and integrity (诚信/守信).7

The vagueness of “social credit” has enabled China’s local authorities to use the catchphrase
to enforce (often unrelated) policy priorities through highly localised initiatives.

Today, 47 institutions (with partly conflicting intentions) are involved in shaping the
system. These include the State Council as cross-ministerial coordinator, the National
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the People’s Bank of China in the lead.
Many of these institutions are also responsible for implementing the system by establishing
and managing platforms to track “social credit” in their respective policy fields.

Examples include financial regulators, or supervisory bodies tracking legal compliance in
such areas as environmental protection, food safety or, most recently, epidemic prevention.
Regional and local authorities are also closely involved. However, despite the busy rule-
making for the SoCS, there is no central, structured depository of related documents.
Thousands of documents can be found on ministry websites, and those run by provincial
and municipal governments.8

Documents published by the main regulatory agencies since 2003 show that the number of
published regulations has risen steeply since 2012. Output peaked in 2019 – the year that a
new initiative on data-driven governance was introduced.

There are also a growing number of laws and regulations that refer to SoCS as an enforcement
mechanism. These include national level laws such as the Foreign Investment Law (2019),
the Vaccine Administration Law (2019) and the recently adopted Biosecurity Law (2020).9
The low number of temporary “trial” or “pilot” documents also speaks to the fact the system
is well-established (see exhibit 2).

Despite the open accessibility of these regulations, the SoCS remains opaque due to the          The regulatory
sheer volume and decentralised storage of information. The regulatory jungle aptly               jungle illustrates
illustrates the messy and inconsistent nature of the system as a whole.                          the messy and
                                                                                                 inconsistent
While the central government encourages a certain degree of experimentation, it is               nature of the
increasingly concerned that SoCS has become so opaque that the system can no longer              system
deal with the central policy challenges it originally sought to address.10 It has set unifying
terms, standards, and practices as the priority for the next phase. Work has also begun
on a comprehensive Social Credit Law. A first draft was formulated for internal review in
December 2020.11




                                                                                MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 6
                                                                                                                                    Exhibit 2



  Most national and provincial regulations are firmly institutionalized
  Number of Social Credit System-related regulations has increased rapidly since 2014 (2003 – 2020)

              Institutionalized       Pilot projects      Temporary implementation


       450
       400
       350
       300
       250
       200
       150
       100
         50
          0
              03

                    04

                          05

                                 06

                                        07

                                              08

                                                     09

                                                            10

                                                                   11

                                                                         12

                                                                                13

                                                                                       14

                                                                                              15

                                                                                                    16

                                                                                                           17

                                                                                                                     18

                                                                                                                          19

                                                                                                                               20
          20

                 20

                        20

                               20

                                     20

                                            20

                                                   20

                                                         20

                                                                20

                                                                       20

                                                                              20

                                                                                    20

                                                                                           20

                                                                                                  20

                                                                                                        20

                                                                                                               20

                                                                                                                      20

                                                                                                                           20
  Sources: MERICS SoCS database containing national and provincial documents from State Council and




                                                                                                                                         © MERICS
  Credit China document depositories. Analysis of documents issued at national and provincial level and proportion
  of documents with mentioning “pilot” or “temporary” in document title, calculation by authors.




3. THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM HAS BECOME A FLEXIBLE TOOL FOR SPEEDY AND
    STRICT ENFORCEMENT

The SoCS has arrived at the end of its crucial six-year construction phase. This represents
a good time to take stock of its evolution. One key finding: the system is in many ways less
coherent than top-level government blueprints demand. This inherent flexibility allows
it to be swiftly redirected towards rules enforcement in changing policy circumstances,
something amply displayed in China’s pandemic response.

3.1 ENSURING THAT ALL SOCIETAL ACTORS PLAY BY THE RULES

From the start, the SoCS had a wide remit to target individuals, enterprises, social organisations,
and government organisations (see exhibit 3). Only CCP organisations are exempt. However,
the main target group has been companies, in line with the overall policy goal of increasing
public trust in commercial products and services and in China’s market economy.

Ensuring companies comply with law and regulation is achieved through both centralised
tracking of violations (recorded in the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity
System) and a patchwork of sector- and region-specific rating systems.

Foreign enterprises with a registered presence in China (legal persons) are included in the
SoCS system on equal terms with their Chinese counterparts. Social organisations (i.e. any
non-governmental entities) remain a small group in numerical terms, but their inclusion is
important to note as it also affects foreign NGOs with representative offices in China.



                                                                                                 MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 7
                                                                                                                            Exhibit 3



  Companies are the main target of the Social Credit System
  Mentions of target groups across documents differs significantly (2003 – 2020)




          73.3 %                             13.3 %                         10.3 %                           3.3 %
          Companies                   Government entities                   Individuals               Social organisations




                                                                                                                                 © MERICS
  Sources: MERICS SoCS database containing national and provincial documents from State Council and Credit China document
  depositories. Analysis of mentions for each target group across all documents, calculation by authors.




In dealing with individuals the SoCS is largely focused on debt repayment. Despite
this, major violations of laws are also tracked and sanctioned. Foreign individuals with
residence in China have occasionally been affected, especially in their function as legal
representatives of a company or for debt default.12 Government agencies are also a target
group, especially in cases of local government debt and contract defaults, but overall efforts
have focused on assessing their performance and incentivising them, rather than sanctions.
Ultimately, the different target groups of the SoCS should be considered as “pillars” of one,
albeit fragmented system.

The SoCS does not establish any new substantial obligations on corporate or individual
behaviour. It remains limited to tracking compliance with, and enforcement of, laws and
regulations.13 It does, however, notably increase reporting duties towards supervisory
agencies to channel data points into the system.

It is important to note that the SoCS remains an extension of the existing legal and
administrative system under party-state control. The official limitation to “enforcement of
laws” does not prevent overreach and human rights violations:

 	First, the SoCS enforces all laws and regulations. This includes repressive ones such as
   censorship regulations, or those that lead to discriminatory treatment of companies.
   It also enforces the growing list of regulations aimed at tackling anti-social conduct,
   standardising and restricting civic behaviour in line with “socialist core values”, as pro-
   claimed by the leadership.

 	Second, government organs can abuse the system to punish individuals for unrelated be-
   haviour. In Inner Mongolia, parents withdrawing their children from schools with man-
   datory Mandarin education curriculum were threatened with blacklistings.14

 	Third, government organs or public institutions can be overeager to use the official
   “credit” assessment beyond its defined purposes, such as when some public schools de-
   cided to exclude students from placement whose parents were on the debt-defaulter list. 15



                                                                                             MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 8
3.2 TRACKING COMPLIANCE ALLOWS SEVERE AND TARGETED SANCTIONS

In the past, major debtors and serious offenders involved in scams, or violators of food
safety or environmental standards, were able to move on and repeat misdeeds without
significant consequences elsewhere. To fulfil the SoCS’s primary objective of tracking
and enforcing overall compliance, two things are required. First, the government must be
able to identify all actors consistently over time and in various locations and, second, the
information needs to be shared.

Unified identification number and integration of information and ratings

Official discussions of SoCS have stressed the need to overcome data islands. Regulations
and a number of Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) between government departments
attempt to tackle their notorious reluctance to share information and resources. They are
now required to actively collaborate and to integrate their data across institutions and
regions.

A key part of SoCS building in recent years was making sure that all individuals, private
entities or organisations nationwide could be identified by a standardised identification
number. Identifying and attaching credit files to individuals through their unique personal
identity number was relatively straightforward. Companies, social organisations and other
institutions were assigned individual numbers based on a unified system. This has largely
been accomplished, including for foreign companies and NGOs.

For companies, the data that the SoCS integrates broadly falls into four categories: basic
information, information on administrative penalties and permits, any irregularities, and
red list or blacklist information (if applicable). There is no unified credit score, rather
national and local platforms use different evaluation or rating systems. Nonetheless, these
aggregated digital files of compliance-related information contribute to law enforcement
(see exhibit 4).
                                                                                                                                         Exhibit 4



  The Social Credit System integrates various types of data into its public files*
  Not all data is related to blacklists or red lists




                                   The Social Credit File
                                                                        Other file              Irregular-       Key enforcement
                   Basic information                                   information                 ities           information


         Unified         Name of                        Other         Admin-       Admin-
                                        Founding                                                Irregulari-
          credit       legal repre-                     basic        istrative    istrative                    Red lists    Blacklists
                                          date                                                    ties list
           code         sentative                        info         permits     penalties



  *Note: This is the file represented in the national Credit China and Corporate Credit Information databases. While these are the model
   for national implementation, different formats exist and are shattered across different administrative levels. A significant portion
                                                                                                                                              © MERICS




   (in some cases over eighty percent) of this data remains confined to these local portals.
   Source: Credit China




                                                                                                  MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 9
Blacklists, red lists and public naming and shaming

Courts and governments agencies have created a plethora of topical blacklists of serious
offenders. Publication of these lists fulfils both a “naming and shaming” and a deterrence
function. Logged minor offences can accumulate and be upgraded to a major offence.

Some entries are automatically deleted after a certain time-period, while serious offences
require the offender to undertake a process of “credit repair”. Serious offenders can remain
on lists indefinitely and find themselves blocked from activity in certain sectors. The SoCS
also establishes red lists to reward compliant behaviour.

Although there are red lists and blacklists specifically for individuals or companies, there
is overlap – especially where individuals fulfil a corporate role carrying legal liabilities for
areas of a company’s conduct that are under their direct supervision.

If a company is blacklisted for “severe untrustworthiness”, the following entities can
receive punishments:

 	The company itself;

 	The legal representatives of the company;

 	The persons directly responsible for the violation.

Joint rewards and punishments to amplify effect of sanctions

The system applies sanctions that go far beyond blacklisting and are in keeping with the
principle declared by the Chinese leadership: “Once proven untrustworthy, restrictions
should apply everywhere”. Whereas in the past, offenders were sanctioned by one
supervising agency or court, they now face a set of punishments jointly imposed by multiple
agencies. This greatly amplifies the effect of sanctions, in order to push all societal actors
towards law-abiding behaviour.
                                                                                                                                          Exhibit 5



  Social Credit System-related sanctions are only imposed on a small minority
  Approximate proportion of blacklisted companies, individuals, and government entities (2018 – 2020)




                    Companies                             Government entities                                Individuals
                     1 – 2%                                      <0.1%                                  0.15 – 0.3%
               of total companies                         of total government                             of total citizens
                    annually                               entities annually                                  annually
                                                                                                                                               © MERICS




  Sources: National Public Credit Information Centre monthly analysis reports on the governance of dishonesty, 2018-2019; news
  reports on blacklisted government entities (2019, 2020). Calculations by authors. No numbers were available for social organisations.




                                                                                                   MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 10
Although the sanctions are severe, our research finds that only a small number of companies
and individuals are affected (see exhibit 5). One main purpose of the SoCS is a general
deterrence effect through the highly public nature of blacklists and extensive reporting
about punishments in state media.

3.3 CAMPAIGN-STYLE USE FOR SPEEDY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION

Key rule-making institutions of the SoCS and their local counterparts are permitted to issue
formal and normative documents. This makes application highly adaptive. The system is a
loose-knit body of highly diversified initiatives that has allowed officials to shift their focus
– and sanctioning powers – between target groups and sectors in order to prioritise certain
laws and regulations. Even at the national level, exhibit 6 shows how the SoCS has targeted
different key issues and sectors over time, as evident in the shifting focus on finance or
food-safety.

                                                                                                                                                             Exhibit 6



  As policy priorities change, so does the Social Credit System
  Since 2003, regulations have targeted various sectors and issues (2003 – 2020)


               Environmental protection                 Food & drug safety                               Commerce, foreign trade & price stability
               Finance                                  Energy, industry & construction                  Science, innovation & education
               Labor & social security                  Traffic & tourism                                Covid-19 & epidemic prevention
               Taxation
   100


     90


     80


     70


     60


     50


     40


     30


     20


     10

       0
            ‘03      ‘04     ‘05      ‘06     ‘07      ‘08     ‘09      ‘10     ‘11      ‘12     ‘13     ‘14      ‘15     ‘16      ‘17     ‘18      ‘19       ‘20
                                                                                                                                                                    © MERICS




  Sources: MERICS SoCS Database containing national and provincial documents from State Council and Credit China document depositories.
  Analysis of mentions for each sector (bases on list of key terms associated with sector) across all documents relative to total. Calculation by authors.




                                                                                                                 MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 11
The response to Covid-19 is a case in point: The SoCS was rapidly deployed to track and
sanction violations of pandemic prevention measures, to stabilise prices and to later
stimulate the safe and orderly return to the workplace. In various cities, citizens that
attempted to evade quarantine, refused to have their temperature taken at checkpoints, or
intentionally concealed their travel history to hard-hit areas were added to the blacklist.

But in a move that took account of the financial strains wrought by the pandemic, the system
was also adjusted to introduce a grace period so debtors (individuals and companies)
could avoid being blacklisted and allow flexibility for companies that held back salaries,
especially for migrant workers.16

The SoCS’s adaptability is also evident in its changing emphasis within longstanding focus
areas, shown here with an analysis of the commerce and industry sectors. As the table
in exhibit 7 illustrates, the SoCS keeps expanding to cover new issues on a regular basis;
typically, these are linked to new legal stipulations and policy priorities.
                                                                                                                          Exhibit 7



  The SoCS addresses changing issues within sectors over time
  Change of thematic focus in national SoCS documents on commerce and industrial production

        Timeline            Commerce                                                  Industrial production
        Pre – 2010          • Agricultural products                                   • Export of fake products
                            • E-commerce                                              • IP protection
                            • Export of electronics                                   • Product quality
        2010 – 2014         • Finance, credit provision                               • Production safety
                            • E-commerce                                              • IP protection
        2015 – 2017         •	E-commerce (accelerate & foster healthy development)   • Production safety in subfields
                            • E-commerce for rural areas                              • IP protection
        2018 – present      •	E-commerce (accelerate & foster healthy development)   • Production safety in subfields
                            • E-commerce for rural areas                              • IP protection
                                                                                      • Covid-19 work resumption




                                                                                                                               © MERICS
  Source: MERICS SoCS Database containing municipal documents from Shanghai and Ningbo’s Credit China depositories.




As the SoCS framework develops, some issue areas also disappear in new documents. This
does not mean these regulations have been abolished, rather that the focus has shifted
away from these sub-sectors, or that these sub-sectors have either become sufficiently
regulated or obsolete.

Such variety and flexibility make it difficult even for China’s national government to assess
the breadth and impact of the SoCS and its subsystems. Nonetheless, the system’s use for
targeted policy enforcement has been lauded by the NDRC and is prominent in the planning
documents for the next phase, which continue to call for social credit to be used in “issue-
focused governance”.17 Against this background, it is to be expected that the SoCS will
continue to expand its reach, in line with new policy priorities.

3.4 DIGITALISATION REMAINS LIMITED TO “CONSTRUCT” AND “SHARE”

Although the system is surrounded by buzzwords like big data and AI, our research has
found such implementation remains a lofty goal. Relevant documents of the past years
consistently fixate on the basic need to “construct databases and platforms” and “share



                                                                                             MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 12
information”. However, the creation of horizontal and vertical data-sharing highways
remains hampered by unclear definitions of different types of credit; by regional and
institutional differences in data collected; and the lack of unified standards and centralised
storage. Chinese scholars have lambasted the lack of control over many facets of the system.18

This fragmentation brings risks for those affected by the system. Companies need to keep
track of various regional and sectoral backlists and check for human error – in one example
a foreign company had a serious offence logged on one platform but not the other relevant
platform.19 For various sectoral-level blacklist databases, only 10 to 25 per cent of blacklist
records are effectively shared with the central Social Credit databases. Even the most well-
standardised databases fail to reach over 90 per cent completeness.20

Furthermore, there are increasing indications that the central authorities recognise the
dangers of automation for legal and administrative processes and the acceptance of this
system. Article 41 of the Administrative Penalties Law revised in January 2021 expresses the
intent that digitally collected evidence should require human evaluation.21 As administrative
penalties are a significant component of the SoCS, the general message is clear: automation
is not the way forward – at least where the SoCS is concerned.
                                                                                                                                 Exhibit 8



  Model cities take different approaches on punishments versus incentives
  Regional distribution and examples of red- and blacklist composition

        Model cities, 1st generation (2018)             Model cities, 2nd generation (2019)



        Examples of distribution of
        red lists and blacklists

          Blacklist       Red list

                         Wuhan
                                                                                                               Anshan



                                 28%                                                                           Weihai

                                                                                                Weifang              Rongcheng
                      72%                                                               Zhengzhou
                                                                                                                 Qingdao
                                                                                                               Suqian
                                                                                            Huaibei             Nanjing
                                                                                                  Hefei          Suzhou
                                                                                      Yichang                        Wuxi
                                                                      Chengdu                                       Shanghai*
                                                                                              Wuhan
                                                                                                      Wuhu        Hangzhou
             Shanghai Pudong District                                    Luzhou
                                                                                      Xianning    Anqing          Yiwu
                                                                                                                  Wenzhou
                                                                                                                 Fuzhou
                                                                                                                 Putian
                      25%                                                                                     Xiamen

                                                                                                      Huizhou
                               75%
                                                                                                                                      © MERICS




  Sources: News reports on first and second group of pilot cities. Data on blacklist and red lists retrieved by authors
  from local Credit China portals of Shanghai (Pudong District) and Wuhan.




                                                                                                    MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 13
4. LOCAL SOCIAL CREDIT INITIATIVES SHOW CHALLENGES IN IMPLEMENTATION

43 pilot cities have launched SoCS projects since 2014, culminating in the selection of 28
model cities between 2018 and 2019 as test beds for nationwide implementation of SoCS.
The pilots show that many of the central-level design challenges are reflected in everyday
implementation of the system (see exhibit 8).

4.1 FRAGMENTATION IS THE NAME OF THE GAME

Although central guidance ensures that the framework remains broadly similar at national
and local levels, variations occur as agencies charged with implementing the system at
all levels specify this according to local priorities and practices. There are three ways this
happens.

First, provinces and cities have used the SoCS framework to address their most pressing
policy issues, while other areas are covered less prominently. This is reflected in exhibit 9,
where Shanghai and Ningbo, though geographically close, have developed significantly
different focus areas in their documents.
                                                                                                                         Exhibit 9



  The focus areas of municipal documents differ greatly
  Mentions of target sectors in municipal documents for Shanghai and Ningbo (2014 – 2020)



                 Shanghai                                   Ningbo
                                                                                            Energy, industry & construction
                                                                                            Food & drug safety
                                                                                            Traffic & tourism
                                                                                            Finance
                                                                                            Environmental protection
                                                                                            Labor & social security
                                                                                            Commerce, foreign trade &
                                                                                            price stability
                                                                                            Science, innovation & education
                                                                                            Taxation
                                                                                            Covid-19 & epidemic prevention    © MERICS




  Source: MERICS SoCS Database containing municipal documents from Shanghai and Ningbo’s Credit China depositories.




Second, while local authorities cannot fully deviate from the national guidance, they can
devise plans that add extra dimensions to the system. In December 2020, the State Council
reiterated that local authorities have the power to formulate supplementary regulations.22

As they turn abstract central-level documents into actionable and specific plans, this has
sometimes entailed broadening the scope through locally specific regulations and targets.

The city of Ningbo’s environmental credit regulations, for example, largely overlap with
those in the national regulations.23 However, it has added provisions for blacklisting
entities that are not found in the documents produced by other localities, i.e.,



                                                                                            MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 14
 	Interruption of centralised drinking water sources;

 	Receiving criticism in the media at Ningbo-level or above, and then failing to perform
   correction work;

 	Any violations that the environmental protection department “believes” should be in-
   cluded in the blacklist.

The significant leeway for local decision-making is a root cause of uneven or legally ambiguous
implementation and can provide vectors for personal influence and abuse of power.

Third, many cities and provinces have implemented proprietary evaluation systems
to enforce SoCS measures. These remain much more disjointed than overseas media
discussions of China’s Social Credit Systems would suggest and reveal how similar
guidelines can be evaluated in widely different ways (see comparison of “environmental
ranking” systems in Jiangsu and Wuhan in exhibit 10).24 Companies operating in different
cities need to be aware of these differences to navigate any potential impacts on their credit
status and local credit files.
                                                                                                                           Exhibit 10



   Evaluation mesures differ greatly by region
   Analysis of differences in environmental credit rating systems between Jiangsu and Wuhan

    Key differences Jiangsu (2019)                                                  Comments Wuhan (2016, trial)
    Points scale          0 – 12                                                    0 – 100
    Baseline              9 points (second-highest category)                        100 points (highest category)
    Special               Unclear Highest score is restricted to top – 2%           No special requirements
    requirements          of participating companies
    Warnings              Any warnings lead to score deductions                     Warnings do not lead to points deductions
                          (-1 point, valid for 6 months)
    Punishments           Adds three categories for punishments, in-                Only one type of punishment for severe
                          cluding a price rise for sewage treatment and             untrustworthiness; mostly in line with the
                          electricity                                               2017 MoU

                                                                                                                                 © MERICS
   Sources: Jiangsu Provincial Measures for the Management of Corporate Environmental Credit Evaluations,
   Wuhan Municipal Measures (trial) for the Management of Corporate Environmental Credit Evaluations.




4.2 FINDING THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF PUNISHMENT

The fragmentation of the SoCS leads to stark differences in reward and punishment
applications. What may not lead to a blacklisting in one city may lead to a blacklist in
another city.

As at national level, the 28 pilot cities primarily rely on binary red lists and blacklists. Local data
sets compiled for this analysis show that just over 700.000 people and companies in these
cities have been blacklisted – amounting to merely 0.5 per cent of their combined population.

Many model cities operate well over 20 different blacklists and red lists. The blacklists
associated with key areas designated by the central government are relatively well
implemented and standardised. For instance, between 70 and 90 per cent of blacklistings



                                                                                               MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 15
target judgement defaulters, i.e., people who refuse to repay loans or court-ordered fines
while having the capacity to pay. These are managed by the national court system and are
deemed to work effectively already.

Beyond the few relatively clearly defined issues, categories of offences and encouraged
behaviour are murkier. Exhibit 11 shows how cities have devised completely different red
lists and apply them differently.
                                                                                                                              Exhibit 11



  The composition of lists and focus areas differs greatly among cities
  Number of entities on red lists in two model cities: Putian and Rongcheng

                    Tax                                                      Tax
                    Food security                                            Food security
                    Construction                                             Production
                    Education & technology research                          Quality supervision, product quality
                    Agricultural input products                              Provincial famous brand
                    Fire safety                                              Others
                    Commerce
                    Others

                              Rongcheng                                                   Putian




                                                                                                                                    © MERICS
  Source: Data compiled by authors based on information provided on each city’s local Credit China portal .




This ambiguity was especially apparent during the Covid-19 epidemic, where model pilot
city Zhengzhou indiscriminately red-listed all hospitals assigned to handle Covid-19
patients, i.e., basing special trustworthiness on doing what is required. And other cities
blacklisted citizens for as little as not wearing a mask.

In yet another instance, model pilot city Anqing blacklisted a citizen for “causing panic” by
posting a video of an ambulance taking away a suspected Covid-19 patient.25 Chinese media
outlets have criticised several of these decisions as arbitrary and irrelevant to the concept
of “credit”.26

A further question relates to proportionality. Companies who failed to pay small fines, in
one case just 600 CNY, have found themselves on the same blacklist as firms who have
defaulted on billion-CNY loans.27 There is therefore an acute risk of “credit” being randomly
applied with disproportionate punishments, undermining the party state’s claim that the
SoCS would establish fairness and transparency.



                                                                                                  MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 16
4.3 DIGITAL VISION MEETS ANALOGUE REALITY

SoCS implementation in the 28 model cities has highlighted how many of the fundamentals
needed for a genuinely high-tech system – e.g., a shared information system, consistent data
formatting, etc. – are incomplete. Instead, the SoCS relies heavily on human information
collection and low-level digitisation – often little more than the use of Excel worksheets or
the WeChat app.

Municipal scoring systems remain rudimentary and resemble incentivised loyalty
programmes like those run by airlines. Participation is fully voluntary, and there are
no negative incentives beyond losing access to minor rewards. For fear of overreach and
pushback, central authorities have banned punishments for low scores and minor offences.28

A tiny percentage of people have taken part over the three years of development. In Xiamen,
only 210,059 users activated their account (or roughly 5 per cent); Wuhu has 60,000
(1.5 per cent), and Hangzhou 1,872,316 (15 per cent) – and even fewer regularly use them.29
Scores are also not shared between cities as each one uses different scoring criteria and
mechanisms, though some cities have signed conversion agreements.30

Little behavioural data is involved as scoring relies mainly on digitised administrative
documents. While early pilots sought to integrate various sources of behavioural and third-
party data, this was later discarded. Weihai city officials, for instance, decided to exclude
data on jaywalking, running red lights, and parking fees from their scoring system.31
Similarly, Suzhou’s plan to cooperate with gaming platforms to penalise video gamers
through the city’s “Osmanthus” scoring system failed to materialise.
                                                                                                                                      Exhibit 12



  Cities collect varying, but overall low amounts of information on citizens
  Estimation of credit data per capita for five model cities

                  2.5


                    2          1.94

                                                   1.58
                  1.5


                    1


                  0.5

                                                                        0.13
                                                                                            0.04                 0.03
                    0
                           Rongcheng               Wuhu              Suzhou*               Suqian              Weihai*


  * Due to inconsistent data quality, methods for calculating data differ and are for indicative purposes only. Data for Suzhou and
    Weihai are calculated as the number of citizens with credit data divided by total population. Data for Rongcheng, Wuhu and
    Suqian are calculated as total credit data divided by total population.
                                                                                                                                            © MERICS




    Source: Data calculated by authors on the basis of local news reports.




                                                                                                   MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 17
Data-inflation exists on a huge scale. Many model cities have reported collecting over a billion
pieces of information (50 billion nationwide), but much of it is low-quality data or irrelevant
to social credit, even in its broadest notion. Our investigation shows that even model cities
generate at most one to two pieces of actual “credit data” per capita (exhibit 12).32

There are also noticeable differences in data management: some model cities use the official
data portal, whereas others periodically upload spreadsheets – sometimes as news items or
even images. Hence, information sharing systems remain underdeveloped, meaning one of
the central goals set in the Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System
has not been met.

Poor data management also affects citizens: 83.9 per cent of respondents to a survey by the
China Youth Daily Social Investigation Centre are afraid to be blacklisted without knowing.33

4.4 STANDARDISATION IS SLOWLY UNDERWAY

The State Council is keen to address these challenges: it released several new guidelines
between 2019 and 2020 to standardise SoCS implementation practices. In February 2021, the
State Administration for Market Regulation published a draft to standardise blacklisting of
severely untrustworthy companies.34

In some ways, these appear effective first steps to address aforementioned concerns. The
guidelines now more clearly define different levels of untrustworthy conduct, even if they
leave room for flexible interpretation. For instance, “severe untrustworthiness” now requires
both a serious violation of the law and a major threat to health and safety, disruption of the
marketplace, or failure to perform national defence obligations.35 They also standardise
blacklisting procedures such as information provision, withdrawal mechanisms, and more.

The new guidance ultimately aims to strictly control implementation of the SoCS and is             The new guidance
one of the factors that contributed to halting experiments with over-engineered and highly         aims to strictly control
controversial (often third-party) behavioural data. Possibly as a result, the proportion of        implementation of
blacklisted companies nationwide between 2018 and 2019 dropped 0.21 percentage points              the SoCS
to 1.1 per cent.36

Nonetheless, a rapid transition to a fully standardised system is unlikely. As the State
Council made clear in December 2020, it wants to retain certain degrees of local flexibility.
Combined with the lack of unified standards for data infrastructures and the slow process
towards a Social Credit Law, this means that staggered implementation is here to stay.



5. THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM IS A KEY COMPONENT OF THE PARTY STATE’S
    DATA-SUPPORTED RULE

The SoCS is part of the jigsaw puzzle of the party state’s vision for governance. It is a vision
that relies heavily on data-based approaches and centralised guidance from the CCP, as
well as tight surveillance to ensure political and regime stability. The SoCS is not generally
tasked with surveillance for political purposes. Rather, there is a clear division of labour
between more public and transparent governance initiatives, including the SoCS, and other
more covert, repressive ones.




                                                                                  MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 18
5.1 THE CCP’S GRAND VISION OF DATA-DRIVEN GOVERNANCE

The SoCS is a core component of Beijng’s data-driven governance.37 It can draw from
other digitised monitoring initiatives in order to detect rule breakers. Apart from official
court verdicts, its main source of data is various systems and digital governance platforms
established as part of the “Internet+Monitoring” or “Internet+Governance” policies. This
information ecosystem is much broader in scope than the SoCS and can be drawn on by
various government actors.

Similar to the SoCS, “Internet+Monitoring” is not a unified system. It is the umbrella term
for the use of multiple channels and mechanisms to collect data and streamline supervision.
Examples include real-time monitoring of toxic emissions and or remote video supervision
in the food and catering industry. Mobile apps make it easy to enter and collate supervision
data.

The underpinning vision is that different government organs join hands to collect vast
amounts of data within a coherent information ecosystem, across institutions, regions
and administrative levels, as a basis for effective and responsive governance. The central
promise to the Chinese public is that comprehensive monitoring will cut red-tape and
improve government services and overall safety.

This is presented as a modern and ultimately superior alternative to “Western democracy”
with its “outdated” checks and balances such as separation of powers and free media and
focus on individual liberties. Beijing is keen to portray China’s containment of Covid-19
as a direct outcome of the competitive advantage of its whole-of-government, data-driven
governance system.38

5.2 THE PARTY STATE’S GROWING SURVEILLANCE ECOSYSTEM

The Social Credit System is often incorrectly conflated with China’s surveillance state. In        The Chinese party
practise, it is a public, relatively transparent system and increasingly curtailed in its reach.   state has other,
But the Chinese party state has other, much more invasive projects at its command. These           much more invasive
projects often operate more covertly and act beyond the confines of laws and regulations, in a     projects at its
relatively clear division of labour. These include Golden Shield, Skynet, Safe Cites and Police    command
Clouds, Project Sharp Eyes, and the Integrated Joint-Operations Platform (IJOP) in Xinjiang.39

Interestingly, their key challenges are strikingly similar to the SoCS: Fragmented
implementation and inconsistent standards hinder cross-regional integration. Chinese
tech giants are playing an increasingly important role here, however. Close cooperation
between state authorities and tech firms have driven innovation and growth. The result has
been significant progress in online monitoring and almost nationwide camera surveillance
coverage, as well as testing out AI and big data analysis, especially in the urban public
security sector. In the fight against the pandemic, the government has proudly displayed
the benefits of Safe City’s comprehensive camera monitoring.40

The rapid rollout of contact tracing and the Covid-19 QR-based health codes was initially
marred by “data islands” as regions set their own standards. But it was also marked by a
steep learning curve on how the public and private sector can work together to integrate
standards quickly and seamlessly, providing lessons for integration in other areas. The
pandemic also revealed the close cooperation and information sharing between government
and private companies in the public security sphere.



                                                                                  MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 19
5.3 COMPANIES WILL PLAY A KEY ROLE IN DATA INTEGRATION

Early negotiations envisioned participation from China’s tech giants and platforms, which
hold a wealth of information on individual behaviour.41 Although they were eventually
excluded from SoCS for fear of unanticipated side-effects and a potential backlash, several
payment and consumer platforms have created their own trust-rating initiatives. In fact,
Alibaba’s Sesame Credit has become so ubiquitous that is often conflated with the Social
Credit System and has strongly contributed to the notion that a unified scoring system
exists.

The government still supports the tech sector’s collection of information and use of
innovative scoring systems. Above all, there are subtle political gains in the tech sector’s
use of highly aligned language on “trust” or “credit.” The messaging to consumers who
receive preferential treatment for being trustworthy has a strong habituation and training
effect, contributing to the overall vision of a “trust-based” society, in which everybody
willingly follows the government’s rules.

At the same time, China’s tech giants remain keen on getting in on the action. They hope
to profit from the new drive to integrate data and make it accessible for automated big
data and AI-aided interpretation across all the areas outlined above: from SoCS and digital
governance to state surveillance. Even a cursory look at calls for bids and advertisements
by China’s main tech firms show that they are eager to promote their capabilities in cross-
system data and platform integration. A variety of major Chinese companies have already
won bids for the construction of SoCS data platforms.42



6. THE ROAD AHEAD FOR SOCIAL CREDIT

As the rollout of the Social Credit System moves from phase one to phase two in 2021, the        Chinese authorities
Chinese authorities will continue to build up, streamline, and integrate the system. It has      will continue to build
become a cornerstone of Xi’s quest for a more modern and efficient rule and its development      up, streamline, and
will remain a high priority for the years to come.                                               integrate the system

As once again highlighted by the Covid-19 pandemic, the system is highly flexible and
can be rapidly deployed in new fields. Given this record, we should expect the system to
continue to be rapidly redeployed as new socio-economic policy priorities come up.

Despite this, current implementation is behind schedule and highly uneven. The system’s
highly flexible nature inherently leads to high levels of fragmentation and poor data sharing
capabilities. Over the next few years, the Chinese authorities will continue to balance the
tightrope of further integration and limitation without stifling flexibility.

The SoCS entails various implications and risks for companies, organisations and
individuals. Its decentralised nature makes it exceedingly hard to keep track of. Even though
a unified Social Credit Law is on the agenda, it will take years to improve legal certainty
and transparency. Despite an increasing focus on credit repair, legal safeguards against
wrongful sanctioning through SoCS mechanisms remain underdeveloped. Chinese legal
professionals have also called for the need to prevent abuse and reduce joint disciplinary
action against citizens.43




                                                                                MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 20
Ultimately, a truly automated, big-data and AI driven SoCS is far from reflected in
implementation. China’s main focus remains on enabling data integration and sharing
between departments and on improving data quality. As the Chinese authorities appear
acutely aware of the dangers of automated decision making in this context, this will
continue to be a manual process. Hence, it remains important to differentiate the SoCS from
initiatives related to e.g. political security, which do show a huge appetite for such solutions.

Since crucial decisions are still taken “offline”, policy makers and potentially affected target
groups need to keep analysing vectors for political influence on the SoCS and to regularly
engage with companies to analyse blacklisting and sanctions. On the technical side, the
collection of increasing amounts of data in the context of the SoCS means higher risks of
data leaks and abuse of information.

One key purpose of the SoCS is to drive home the message that non-compliance is not                 Foreign actors need
accepted anymore. But the SoCS also serves to enforce repressive and exclusionary norms.            to accept the reality
Party control has been increasingly legally codified, such as control of political expression       of an expanding
online, restrictions on civil society or potential retaliatory measures directed against foreign    Social Credit System
companies. It is important to systematically analyse the legal and regulatory development           in China
in China in the years to come.

Foreign actors need to accept the reality of an expanding Social Credit System in China
– and develop strategies to deal with this reality. Most importantly, the SoCS is only a
small fraction of China’s monitoring and surveillance capacities. Public security driven
surveillance initiatives, in particular, carry much broader rights implications.




  The authors would like to thank freelance data scientist Jianyin Roachell for his
  contribution in building the MERICS Social Credit database as well as Paula Kuls for
  her support on categorizing normative documents during her internship at MERICS.




                                                                                   MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 21
ENDNOTES

 1 |	Sohu (2020a). “年社会信用体系建设十大重点研究方向 (Ten key directions to explore in the construction
      of the Social Credit System in 2020).” March, 6. https://www.sohu.com/a/378101732_777813. Accessed:
      November 1, 2020.
 2 |	Yu, Qian 余茜 (2020). “十四五”治理有“数”开新篇 (In the "Fourteenth Five-Year Plan", governance will
      draw on “data” to open a new chapter).” October 28. http://theory.people.com.cn/n1/2020/1028/c40531-
      31908612.html. Accessed: October 30, 2020.
 3 |	For a detailed analysis of this development see: Knight, Adam (2020). “Technologies of Risk and
      Discipline in China’s Social Credit System.” In: Rogier J. E. H. Creemers and Sue Trevaskes (eds). Law
      and the Party in Xi Jinping's China: Ideology and Organization, 273-254; Trivium (2019). “Understanding
      China’s Social Credit System.” Trivium Primer. http://socialcredit.triviumchina.com/what-is-social-
      credit/. Accessed: October 10, 2020.
 4 |	Sohu (2020b): “习近平：要把法治工作重点放在完善制度环境上，加强社会信用体系建设 (Xi Jinping: In
      building rule by law, we must focus on improving the systemic environment and strengthen the
      construction of the Social Credit System)”. February 27. https://www.sohu.com/a/298187739_100013182.
      Accessed: October 12, 2020.
 5 |	Xinhua (2020). “近平在中央全面依法治国工作会议上强调 坚定不移走中国特色社会主义法治道路 为全面建设社会
      主义现代化国家提供有力法治保障 (Xi Jinping emphasizes need to unswervingly follow the path of Socialist
      Rule of Law with Chinese Characteristics at Central Committee's Work Conference on Comprehensive
      Rule of Law, in order to provide a strong legal foundation for the construction of a modern socialist
      country)”. http://www.xinhuanet.com/politics/leaders/2020-11/17/c_1126751678.htm. Accessed:
      November 25, 2020.
 6 |	CCP Central Committee (2020).
 7 |	Knight (2020); Zhang, Chenchen (2020). “Governing (through) Trustworthiness: Technologies of Power
      and Subjectification in China’s Social Credit System”. Critical Asian Studies, 2020, 1–24.
 8 |	The analysis presented here and in the following sections is based on the MERICS Social Credit System
      data-base. This consists of 1456 documents published by national and provincial authorities between
      2003 and 2020, retrieved from the Credit China and State Council document repositories. Separate to
      this, the database also includes around 1,000 documents published by a selection of Chinese cities.
 9 |	Laws and regulations can refer to SoCS for implementation and enforcement to varying degrees, from
      requiring information to be entered into SoCS mechanisms or explicitly outlining blacklistable offenses.
      See e.g.: Foreign Investment Law of the PRC (2019), arts. 34, 38; Vaccine Administration Law of the PRC
      (2019), arts. 23, 72; Biosecurity Law of the PRC (2020), art. 26.
10 |	A key recent document can be found in English at: China Law Translate, trans. (2020). “Guiding
      Opinions on Further Regulating the Scope of Inclusions in Public Credit Information, Punishments
      for Untrustworthiness, and Credit Restoration to Build Long-Term and Effective Mechanisms
      for Establishing Creditworthiness (Draft for Solicitation of Public Comments)”. https://www.
      chinalawtranslate.com/en/futher-regulating-social-credit/. Accessed November 2, 2020.
11 |	The Paper (2020). “国家发改委：社会信用法草案正征求各地方和相关部门意见 (National Development and
      Reform Commission: the draft for the Social Credit Law is currently seeking opinions from local and
      relevant departments)”. December 15. https://www.thepaper.cn/newsDetail_forward_10401166.
      Accessed: February 4, 2021.
12 |	Research by authors on Credit China portal and debt-defaulter blacklist.
13 |	Knight (2020); Trivium (2019).
14 |	Su, Alice (2020). “Threats of arrest, job loss and surveillance. China targets its ‘model minority’”.
      September 23. https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2020-09-23/inner-mongolia-china-model-
      minority-crackdown. Accessed: October 22, 2020.
15 |	Boxun (2018). “家长成老赖孩子不能上学？这所中学的招生政策火了 (Children of “debtors” cannot go to
      school? The enrollment policy of this middle school is drawing fiery debate)”. May, 1.
      https://www.boxun.com/news/gb/misc/2018/05/201805010728.shtml. Accessed: November 2, 2020.
16 |	Brussee, Vincent (2020). "No Credit for Culprits". Mercator Institute for China Studies. July 21.
      https://merics.org/en/analysis/no-credit-culprits. Accessed: October 10, 2020.
17 |	NDRC (2019). “国家发改委：社会信用体系建设重点领域专项治理成效显著 (NDRC: The Social Credit System
      construction has achieved remarkable results in issue-focused governance of key areas).” https://www.
      ndrc.gov.cn/xwdt/ztzl/cyzl/2019cy/cxcy/201901/t20190123_1188559.html. Accessed: October 28, 2020.
18 |	Lin, Junyue (2020). “On the Identification of the Nature of Social Credit System and Its Practical
      Significance.” Credit Reference 征信 9: 1–7; Jiang, Kaiyuan (2020). “Development and Application of
      the Public Credit Information Exchange Standard.” Standard Science 7: 57–61; Tang, Gui, and Haojie
      Chen (2020). “Innovative Research on the Construction of New Industry Credit System with Chinese
      Characteristics.” Exploration of Economic Issues 2020/8: 44–49.
19 |	Case samples collected from Credit China by authors.
20 |	Trivium China (2020). “China’s Corporate Social Credit System: Context, Competition, Technology and
      Geopolitics.” https://www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-12/Chinas_Corporate_Social_Credit_System.
      pdf. Accessed: January 7, 2021.
21 |	Xinhua (2021). ”中华人民共和国行政处罚法 (Administrative Penalties Law of the People's Republic of
      China)”. January 23. http://m.xinhuanet.com/2021-01/23/c_1127015256.htm. Accessed: January 27, 2021.
22 |	State Council (2020). "国务院办公厅关于进一步完善失信约束制度构建诚信建设长效机制的指导意见 (State
      Council Office Guiding Opinions regarding the Further Improving the Dishonesty Constraint System
      and Establishing a Long Term Mechanism for Integrity Construction).“ http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/
      content/2020-12/18/content_5570954.htm. Accessed: January 7, 2021.




                                                                                              MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 22
23 |	Ningbo Credit (2016).” 宁波市环境违法“黑名单”管理办法（试行） (Ningbo Municipal Trial Measures for
      the Management of the Blacklist for Illegal Environmental Actions)”. https://www.nbcredit.gov.cn/
      art/2016/12/23/art_14_4989.html. Accessed: December 15, 2020.
24 |	Department of Ecology and Environment of Jiangsu Province (2020). “江苏省企事业环保信用评价办法政策解
      读 (Policy Interpretation for the Jiangsu Provincial Management of the Corporate Environmental Credit
      Evaluations)”. http://hbt.jiangsu.gov.cn/art/2020/5/27/art_74111_9186767.html. Accessed: December
      15, 2020; Credit Wuhan (2015). “武汉市企业环境信用评价办法（试行）(Wuhan Trial Measures for the
      Management of the Corporate Environmental Credit Evaluations)”. https://credit.wuhan.gov.cn/front/
      article/29428.html. Accessed: December 15, 2020.
25 |	Brussee, Vincent (2020).
26 |	Xinhua Credit (2020). "公共场所不戴口罩算失信？社会信用制度要防滥用 (Not Wearing a Mask in Public
      Places Counts as Trustbreaking? Social Credit System Should Prevent Abuse)." May 20.
      http://www.jinshui.gov.cn/xydt/3321286.jhtml. Accessed: November 3, 2020.
27 |	Tencent / Wuhan Court (2019). "武汉公布第5批失信被执行人名单：有人因欠593.55元被限制出境 (Wuhan
      Publishes Fifth Batch of Trust-Breakers: People Have Been Banned from Going Abroad for Owing 593.55
      CNY)." October 31. https://page.om.qq.com/page/OxNwtSojeWIoadlUTuEStOsg0. Accessed: October 30,
      2020.
28 |	Zhang C. (2020).
29 |	Zhang, Chenchen (2020); Sohu (2018). “’信用让生活更便利’—— 芜湖新闻频道对乐惠分应用场景进行采访报道
      (‘Credit Makes Life More Convenient‘ - Wuhu News Channel Interviews and Reports on the Application
      Scenario’s of Lehui Points).” September 3. https://www.sohu.com/a/251674535_818105. Accessed:
      November 2, 2020; Sohu (2020). “速领！杭州试点’信用码’，持’蓝码、绿码’去景区、酒店、停车可享优惠！
      (Hangzhou Trials ‘Credit Code’, Holders of Blue and Green Codes Can Enjoy Discounts at Scenic Sites,
      Hotels, and Parking).” April 30. https://www.sohu.com/a/392234158_160905. Accessed: November 2, 2020.
30 |	The only two publicly-known instances are Hangzhou-Xiamen and Hangzhou-Quzhou: Hangzhou
      Daily (2020). “浙江杭州、福建厦门：杭州“钱江分”与厦门“白鹭分”互认 (Hangzhou and Xiamen: Hangzhou’s
      Qianjiang Points and Xiamen’s Egret Points Have Become Mutually Interoperable).” April 30.
      http://www.bcpcn.com/articleShow?d=95456. Accessed: November 3, 2020; Sohu (2020). “速领！杭州试
      点“信用码”，持“蓝码、绿码”去景区、酒店、停车可享优惠！ (Hangzhou Trials “Credit Code”, Holders of Blue
      and Green Codes Can Enjoy Discounts at Scenic Sites, Hotels, and Parking).” April 30.
      https://www.sohu.com/a/392234158_160905. Accessed: November 2, 2020.
31 |	Sohu (2020c). "威海医保信用信息共享至社会信用管理中心，纳入'海贝分'管理 (Weihai Medical Insurance
      Credit Information Is Shared to the Social Credit Management Center and Included in the Haibei
      Points Management)." August 28. https://k.sina.cn/article_5328858693_13d9fee4502000y11k.
      html?from=news&subch=onews. Accessed: November 3, 2020.
32 |	Legal Daily (2018). “苏州打造市民信用评价’桂花分’ (Suzhou Builds Citizen Credit Rating ‘Osmanthus
      Points’).” August 16. http://www.legaldaily.com.cn/zt/content/2018-08/16/content_7619942.htm.
      Accessed: November 3, 2020; Xinhua News (2017). "(市长谈信用)芜湖：五大体系推进诚信建设制度化 (Mayor
      Talks About Credit - Wuhu: Five Big Systems Promote Institutionalisation of Integrity Construction)."
      October 14. http://xinhua-rss.zhongguowangshi.com/13701/5309965205194152973/2404929.html.
      Accessed: November 3, 2020; CreditHB (2018). "西楚分：让守信主体拥有更多获得感 (Xichu Points:
      Let Trustworthy Entities Have More Sense of Achievement)." May 23. http://www.credithb.org/
      content/?1745.html. Accessed: 3 November 2020; Xinhua (2018). "山东荣成：让信用成为城市'金字招牌'
      (Shandong Rongcheng: Let Credit Become a City’s “Gold Signboard')." September 27.
      http://www.xinhuanet.com/politics/2018-09/27/c_1123488320.htm. Accessed: November 3, 2020;
      Weihai News (2019). "在威海，'海贝分'高者可享22项惠民政策 (In Weihai, Those with High 'Haibao Points'
      Can Enjoy 22 Beneficial Policies)." January 22. https://www.whnews.cn/news/node/2019-01/22/
      content_7054576.htm. Accessed: November 3, 2020.
33 |	Hao, Jing (2020). "论行政法视域下正当程序对信用监管机制的规制 (On the Regulation of the Credit
      Supervision Mechanism from the Perspective of Administrative Law)." Journal of Hebei Youth
      Administrative Cadres College 32(5): 82–87.
34 |	China Law Translate, trans. (2021). Measures for Managing the List of Untrustworthy Enterprises
      with Serious Violations (Draft Revisions for Solicitation of Public Comments).
      https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/bad-business/. Accessed: February 15, 2021.
35 |	China Law Translate, trans. (2020). "Guiding Opinions on Further Regulating the Scope of Inclusions in
      Public Credit Information, Punishments for Untrustworthiness, and Credit Restoration to Build Long-Term
      and Effective Mechanisms for Establishing Creditworthiness (Draft for Solicitation of Public Comments)."
      https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/futher-regulating-social-credit/. Accessed: November 2, 2020.
36 |	National Information Centre (2020). "城市信用状况监测 推动社会信用体系建设显实效 (Urban Credit Status
      Monitor, Effective Results of the Promotion the Construction of the Social Credit System)." China Credit
      中国信用 2020(2): 67–72.
37 |	State Council (2019). “国务院办公厅关于加快推进社会信用体系建设 构建以信用为基础的新型监管机制的指导意
      见 (Guiding Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Accelerating the Construction of the
      Social Credit System and Building a New Monitoring Mechanism with Social Credit as its Foundation).”
      http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2019-07/16/content_5410120.htm. Accessed: October 15, 2020.
38 |	State Council Information Office (2020). “White Paper: Fighting COVID-19: China in Action.”
      http://english.www.gov.cn/atts/stream/files/5edc549dc6d0cc300eea778c. Accessed: October 25, 2020.
39 |	For a detailed discussion of these different initiatives, see: Peterson, Dahlia (2020). “Designing
      Alternatives to China’s Repressive Surveillance State.” CSET Policy Brief (October 2020).
      https://cset.georgetown.edu/research/designing-alternatives-to-chinas-repressive-surveillance-state/.
      Accessed: November 6, 2020;




                                                                                              MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 23
      ChinaFile (2020). “State of Surveillance: Government Documents Reveal New Evidence on China’s
      Efforts to Monitor Its People.” October 30. https://www.chinafile.com/state-surveillance-china.
      Accessed: November 6, 2020; Human Rights Watch (2019). “China’s Algorithms of Repression: Reverse
      Engineering a Xinjiang Police Mass Surveillance App.” May 1. https://www.hrw.org/report/2019/05/01/
      chinas-algorithms-repression/reverse-engineering-xinjiang-police-mass. Accessed: November 6, 2020.
40 |	von Carnap et al. (2020).
41 |	Trivium (2020).
42 |	Trivium (2020).
43 |	Xu, Yangyang 徐杨杨 (2020). “社会信用体系建设背景下的信用应用创新研究 (Research on Innovation in Credit
      Applications against the Background of the Construction of the Social Credit System)”. Attention 关注
      2020(2): 14-15; Sohu (2020). “该立一部什么样的社会信用法? (Establish What Kind of a Social Credit Law?)”.
      July 10. https://www.sohu.com/a/400990633_777813. Accessed November 3, 2020; Xiao, Zhenyu 肖振宇,
      Houru Weng 翁后茹, and Yang Sun 孙阳 (2020). ‘县域城市信用体系建设的实践与思考 ——以江苏省昆山市
      为例 (Practice and Reflection on the Construction of County City Credit System — A Case of Kunshan City.
      Jiangsu Province)’.




                                                                                            MERICS CHINA MONITOR | March 3, 2021 | 24
CONTACT
Katja Drinhausen
Senior Analyst, MERICS
katja.drinhausen@merics.de

EDITORIAL TEAM
Claudia Wessling
Director Publications, MERICS
claudia.wessling@merics.de

Mary Hennock
Freelance Editor

GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT
Alexandra Hinrichs
Graphic Designer, MERICS

PUBLISHER
MERICS | Mercator Institute for China Studies
Klosterstraße 64 | 10179 Berlin
Tel.: +49 30 3440 999 0
Mail: info@merics.de
www.merics.org

ISSN: 2509-3843
