             China’s Social Credit System: An Evolving Practice of Control

                                            Rogier Creemers
                                           University of Leiden

A major problem in China’s legal reform efforts has been ensuring effective legal and
regulatory implementation, enforcement and compliance. In areas ranging from the
enforcement of civil judgments1 and intellectual property2, to environmental protec-
tion3 and food safety4, the phenomenon that “enforcement is difficult” (zhixing nan)
remains prominent. The Chinese leadership has recognized this, identifying the im-
provement of implementation and compliance mechanisms as a key component of
the legal reform agenda outlined at the 4th Plenum of 20145. Partly, subsequent re-
form measures have focused on the incremental improvement of existing judicial
and administrative mechanisms. A revision of the Administrative Litigation Law,
combined with directives to the courts to accept more administrative cases, led to a
considerable increase in the number of administrative cases accepted6. The institu-
tion of circuit appeals courts reduced the dependence of the judiciary on local gov-
ernments, while changes to the case filing system reduced the discretion courts had
to accept and reject cases – a process often infused with issues of politics and corrup-
tion7.

At the same time, the leadership has also explored the development of novel, tech-
nology-driven tools for social control, to supplement traditional means of governing
state and society. The high priority of forestalling threats to the integrity of China’s
political system have fuelled an increasingly powerful security state8. Surveillance
and monitoring have become pervasive across China, particularly in politically sen-
sitive areas such as Tibet and Xinjiang. Technology is increasingly introduced into
the judicial system, to enhance the effectiveness of trial processes9, and increase the


1 Clarke, Donald C. "The execution of civil judgments in China." The China Quarterly 141 (1995): 65.
2 Dimitrov, Martin. Piracy and the state: The politics of intellectual property rights in China. Cambridge

University Press, 2009.
3 Van Rooij, Benjamin et al. “Pollution Enforcement in China: Understanding National and Regional

Variation.” In: Sternfeld, Eva (ed.) Routledge Handbook of Environmental Policy in China. Routledge,
2017: 193-207.
4 Jiang, Qijun, and Ying Zhu. "Challenges for enforcing food safety law and regulations in China: Case

studies of government agencies in the Shanghai region." APLPJ 18 (2016): 36.
5 CCP Central Committee. Guanyu quanmian tuijin yifa zhiguo ruogan zhongda wenti de jueding [Decision

concerning Some Major Questions in Comprehensively Moving Governing the Country According to the Law
Forward.] 28 October 2014. Translation available:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2014/10/28/ccp-central-committee-decision-
concerning-some-major-questions-in-comprehensively-moving-governing-the-country-according-to-
the-law-forward/
6 Mahboubi, Neysun et al. “The Future of China’s Legal System.” Chinafile. 11 August 2016. Online:

http://www.chinafile.com/viewpoint/future-of-chinas-legal-system
7 Zhao, Yanrong. "The Courts' Active Role in the Striving for Judicial Independence in China." Fron-

tiers L. China 12 (2017): 278.
8 Wang, Yuhua, and Carl Minzner. "The rise of the Chinese security state." The China Quarterly 222

(2015): 339.
9 Xu, Alison. "Chinese judicial justice on the cloud: a future call or a Pandora’s box? An analysis of the

‘intelligent court system’of China." Information & Communications Technology Law 26.1 (2017): 59-71.




                    Electroniccopy
                   Electronic  copy available
                                    available at:
                                              at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
                                                  https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
transparency of judicial information10. In urban areas, “grid management” tech-
niques integrate information and communication technologies with street-level po-
licing, social services and both coercive and cooperative forms of management. The
objective is responding to social unrest, and preventing the materialization of poten-
tially destabilizing risks11. Here too, the use of technology has been central, encom-
passing the installation of increasingly sophisticated CCTV cameras, surveillance
through mobile devices number plate recognition and facial recognition tools. Ambi-
tious development plans also indicate the leadership’s intention to further harness
big data and artificial intelligence for the purpose of social management12.

One social management programme that has gained particular prominence is the
Social Credit System (shehui xinyong tixi – SCS13). According to the planning docu-
ment that outlines its most recent iteration, “its inherent requirements are establish-
ing the idea of a sincerity culture, and promoting honesty and traditional virtues, it
uses encouragement for trustworthiness and constraints against untrustworthiness
as incentive mechanisms, and its objective is raising the sincerity consciousness and
credit levels of the entire society14.” In other words, the SCS is framed as a set of
mechanisms providing rewards or punishments as feedback to actors, based not just
on the lawfulness, but also the morality of their actions, covering economic, social
and political conduct. This maximalist objective, combined with China’s rapidly in-
creasing technological prowess, the absence of strong constitutional protections for
individual citizens, and the turn towards stricter Party control under the Xi Jinping
administration, have led numerous observers to portray the SCS as an Orwellian
nightmare15, where Big Brother and big data conspire to finally realize the totalitari-

10 Ahl, Björn, and Daniel Sprick. "Towards judicial transparency in China: The new public access da-

tabase for court decisions." China Information (2017): 0920203X17744544. On big data analysis of these
sources, see also Liebman, Benjamin L., et al. "Mass Digitization of Chinese Court Decisions: How to
Use Text as Data in the Field of Chinese Law." SSRN Workiing Paper (2017). Online:
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2985861
11 Hoffman, Samantha. Programming China: The Communist Party’s Autonomic Approach to Managing

State Security. 2017. PhD Thesis (on file with author); Wu, Qiang. “Urban Grid Management and Po-
lice State in China: A Brief Overview.” China Change. 8 August 2013. Online:
https://chinachange.org/2013/08/08/the-urban-grid-management-and-police-state-in-china-a-brief-
overview/
12 State Council. Cujin dashuju fazhan xingdong gangyao [Action Programme to Stimulate the Devel-

opment of Big Data]. 31 August 2015. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2015/08/31/outline-of-operations-to-stimulate-
the-development-of-big-data/; State Council. Xinyidai rengong zhineng fazhan guihua [Next Genera-
tion Artificial Intelligence Development Plan]. 8 July 2017. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2017/07/20/a-next-generation-artificial-
intelligence-development-plan/.
13 One linguistic note must be made: the Mandarin term “credit” (xinyong) carries a wider meaning

than its English-language counterpart. It not only includes notions of financial ability to service debt,
but is cognate with terms for sincerity, honesty, and integrity.
14 State Council. Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe guihua gangyao (2014-2020 nian) [Planning Outline for

the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014-2020).] 14 June 2014. Translation online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2014/06/14/planning-outline-for-the-
construction-of-a-social-credit-system-2014-2020/
15 “Orwell’s Nightmare: China’s Social Credit System.” Asian Institute for Policy Studies. 28 February

2017. Online: http://en.asaninst.org/contents/orwells-nightmare-chinas-social-credit-system/;
Brehm, Stefan, and Nicholas Loubere. “China’s dystopian social credit system is a harbinger of the




                   Electroniccopy
                  Electronic  copy available
                                   available at:
                                             at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
                                                 https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
an impulses of China’s autocratic leaders16. In this vision, often compared with an
episode of the dystopian television series Black Mirror in which people continuously
rate their interactions with one another17, China will have established a comprehen-
sive system by 2020. This will not only track the movements and actions of individu-
al citizens, but also process them to result in a quantified score18. This score would
be based on data points including online purchases, posted content on social media,
and the sort of friends one has. In turn, the score would have a wide-ranging impact
on people’s lives, influencing their ability to get jobs, loans and mortgages, their rela-
tionships with friends and family, and even their ability to travel.

The image such portrayals conjure up is one of an omnipotent behemoth relentlessly
carrying out a long-prepared scheme for complete control. The question, however, is
whether that assessment is justified, and if not, how the SCS does impact the direc-
tion of China’s legal and governance reform. Exactly how does the SCS complement,
reinforce or undermine the functioning of existing judicial and administrative law
enforcement processes, which role does it play itself in the shaping of social rules
and norms? More broadly, as an example of what Lyon would refer to as a “social
sorting19” mechanism, what sort of social control tool is the SCS meant to be, and
how does the SCS designate different classes in Chinese society, and justify differen-
tiated treatment?

The answer to these questions requires, first and foremost, a thorough study of the
thinking and design processes behind the SCS, and providing this is the objective of
this Article. It combines the extensive use of Chinese language source material, hith-
erto unutilized in English-language scholarly work, with observations from field vis-
its to China in the period 2014-2017. During this period, SCS-related initiatives are
deployed simultaneously by multiple stakeholders, at various levels of government,
in the public and private sectors, continuously learning off and influenced by each
other. The idea originated first in the context of China’s market economic reforms,
where it was seen as a potential solution to the perceived lack of trustworthy and
moral conduct resulting in abuses ranging from intellectual property infringement to
the sale of adulterated foodstuffs. Over time, its scope of application expanded as
the leadership found the idea attractive in other areas of governance as well. There is
a central core: the fundamental objective of the SCS is instituting cybernetic mecha-
nisms of behavioural control, where individuals and organizations are monitored in

global age of the algorithm.” The Conversation. 15 January 2018. Online:
https://theconversation.com/chinas-dystopian-social-credit-system-is-a-harbinger-of-the-global-age-
of-the-algorithm-88348
16 “China invents the digital totalitarian state .” The Economist. 17 December 2016. Online:

https://www.economist.com/news/briefing/21711902-worrying-implications-its-social-credit-
project-china-invents-digital-totalitarian
17 Nguyen, Clinton. “China might use data to create a score for each citizen based on how trustworthy

they are “. Business Insider. 26 October 2016. Online: https://www.businessinsider.nl/china-social-
credit-score-like-black-mirror-2016-10/?international=true&r=US
18 Botsman, Rachel. “Big data meets Big Brother as China moves to rate its citizens .” Wired. 21 Octo-

ber 2017. Online: http://www.wired.co.uk/article/chinese-government-social-credit-score-privacy-
invasion
19 Lyon, David. "Surveillance, security and social sorting: emerging research priorities." International

criminal justice review 17.3 (2007): 161-170.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
order to automatically confront them with the consequences of their actions. Follow-
ing Shue and Thornton20, it studies the SCS as an evolving practice of governance.
While it builds on intellectual, ideological and structural antecedents already present
in China’s governance architecture, the SCS has undergone, and continues to under-
go, a process of development which builds on, and feeds into, shifting governance
priorities, new possibilities enabled by technological development, and the iterative
learning process so typical of Chinese policymaking21.

This paper consists of four sections. A first section will review the historical anteced-
ents for the SCS. More specifically, it will discuss how the SCS is building on, and
tactically borrowing from, a storehouse of ideas, concepts, approaches and tech-
niques that has profoundly shaped Chinese political and legal practice in the past,
sometimes dating back to imperial days. The second section will trace the emergence
and expansion of social credit-related notions at the central and local levels of the
Party-State, as well as preliminary institutional steps taken to start constructing the
system. The third section will survey the 2014 Plan for the Construction of the Social
Credit System, which remains the most comprehensive planning document in this
field, as well as subsequent implementation measures and local trials. It will pay
particular attention to the Joint Punishment System (lianhe chengzhi tixi), the first ma-
jor element of the SCS to enter into nationwide service. The fourth section shifts the
attention from the state to the private sector: spurred on by policies to develop tools
to measure financial creditworthiness, a few of China’s tech giants have created so-
cial credit-like systems of their own. Yet the relationship between these private initi-
atives and the governmental scheme remains ambiguous and ambivalent. The con-
cluding section will summarize the fundamental elements of the SCS as it stands,
and identify the dimensions of potential transformation that may be used to guide
future research.

I. Historical and intellectual roots

At the macro-level, the context in which the concept of social credit evolved is per-
haps best characterized as one of repeated efforts at building an effective, powerful
and prosperous state. The term was mentioned first in the Nineties, in the context of
the market-economic reforms that had started under the leadership of Deng Xiao-
ping. These reforms themselves were the latest iteration in a series of attempts that
begun in the mid-19th Century, often abortive, to modernize China’s state and socie-
ty22. Early generations of reformers saw law as a key element of these reforms, ex-
ploring constitutional reform during the late Empire, and importing German and
Japanese elements of civil codification23. Yet successive generations of leaders were

20 Shue, Vivienne, and Patricia Thornton. “Beyond Implicit Political Dichotomies and Linear Models

of Change in China”. In: Shue, Vivienne, and Patricia Thornton. To Govern China: Evolving Practices of
Power. Cambridge University Press, 2017.
21 Tsai, Wen-Hsuan, and Nicola Dean. "The CCP's learning system: thought unification and regime

adaptation." The China Journal 69 (2013): 87-107.
22 See Mitter, Rana. A Bitter Revolution: China’s Struggle with the Modern World. Oxford University

Press, 2004; Schell, Orville, and John Delury. Wealth and Power: China's Long March to the Twenty-first
Century. Random House, 2013.
23 Chen, Jianfu. Chinese Law: Context and Transformation. Martinus Nijhoff, 2008, Chapters 1 and 2.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
unable to establish stable domestic governance across the entire Chinese territory,
and protect it from foreign intrusion. Consequently, law moved to the background
in the overall picture of China’s political transformation, replaced by a hard-nosed
focus on the acquisition and maintenance of power, often through military means.
The first three decades of Communist Party rule were characterized by legal nihilism
and continued turmoil. Law only regained a meaningful role in Chinese governance
after the death of Mao, and China’s entire legal system had to be rebuilt from the
ground up.

This long period of neglect meant many of the substantive and procedural develop-
ments that occurred in legal systems around the world throughout the 20th Century
largely passed China by. The judicialization of constitutional protections and the in-
troduction of human rights-based practices in Western countries24, which occurred
particularly after the Second World War, never gained a foothold in China. While
discussions about fundamental rights and the role of the state did take place in intel-
lectual circles25, China’s Leninist governance system prioritizes the flexibility and
discretion of its vanguard Party. The 2014 4th Plenum clearly affirmed Party leader-
ship over the legal system, while the doctrine of the “Three Supremes” (sange
zhishang) requires the judiciary to first and foremost observe the supremacy of the
Party’s cause. At the same time, it also meant that once the decision to reinvigorate
the legal system was taken, there were few extant indigenous resources the system
could lean on. The result is that legal reform became a syncretic process integrating
selectively adopted ideas from Chinese political history and lessons learnt from for-
eign legal systems26. Exactly the fact that law is not seen as an autonomous sphere,
but one intimately connected with politics and governance, means those pursuing
legal and institutional innovation have cast a wider net in terms of inspiration. The
SCS combines a number of these strands. The most important are first, the notion
that the State is not merely in charge of legal authority, but should also foster social
morality; and second, a positivist view of social reality based on systems theory,
which holds that society can be understood and engineered through a holistic, scien-
tific approach, blurring boundary between state and society, public and private.

The state as promotor of moral virtue

The close linkage between morality and authority lies at the heart of China’s political
tradition. The fundamental notion of imperial legitimacy, the Mandate of Heaven,
holds that power is bestowed by Heaven unto a just ruler, and will be withheld from
an unjust one27. For centuries, the only path to officialdom lay through an examina-
tion system based on a canon of Confucian texts, which posited virtue as the central



24 Loughlin, Martin. Foundations of public law. Oxford University Press, 2010.
25 Svensson, Marina. Debating human rights in China: A conceptual and political history. Rowman &

Littlefield Publishers, 2002.
26 See, amongst others, Pieke, Frank N. "The Communist Party and social management in China."

China Information 26.2 (2012): 149-165.
27 Zhao, Dingxin. "The mandate of heaven and performance legitimation in historical and contempo-

rary China." American Behavioral Scientist 53.3 (2009): 416-433.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
element of governing the person, the family, the region and the empire28. Education
was a crucial element of that process, and a primary task of officials. By the late em-
pire, state-sponsored schools had come into being. In rural areas, semi-monthly lec-
tures (xiangyue) were organized to propagate the Sacred Edict, a list of sixteen max-
ims covering Confucian morality in a condensed matter, as well as oral vernacular
expositions, not dissimilar to the homily in Catholic tradition29. The CCP has inherit-
ed and carried forward this mantle of moral authority, through its ambition to create
“new Socialist citizens”. Even after the Cultural revolution, the period of reform and
openness (gaige kaifang) did not repudiate that goal, but recast it as an integral part of
social management. The construction of a “spiritual civilization” (jingshen wenming)
would accompany the concomitant progress in material and economic conditions30.
Moreover, legal and moral authority are fused, where lawful and morally just con-
duct are coterminous. Illustratively, the 4th Plenum denoted “governing the country
by virtue” (yide zhiguo) as equal to “governing the country by the law” (yifa zhiguo).

Law thus is a tool to cultivate subjects’ moral sentiments and transform their
worldview, in order to achieve social and cosmic harmony31. In Thornton’s32 view,
successive generations of Chinese rulers also instrumentalized morality and norma-
tive authority as part of a state-building process that sought to redraw the bounda-
ries between the centre and the localities, as well as between state and society, in
pursuit of shifting “socio-ethical agendas”. The central state would portray itself as
morally superior to its local agents. It would reframe political conflicts would be re-
defined as moral failings, to be remedied by the deployment of both cooptative and
coercive measures. Individuals or forces who did not submit to these central efforts
would be expunged from the state’s ambit. Enforcing these moral standards justi-
fyed expansion of the state’s capacity to monitor and discipline the conduct of local
officials, and to penetrate grass-roots society. While Thornton analyses a period be-
tween the late Empire and the early People’s Republic, these techniques are reflected
even in the current anti-corruption campaign under Xi Jinping33.

The SCS fits squarely in this tradition. From the very beginning, the compliance
problem that the SCS is intended to solve has been framed in moralistic terms. In
2001 already, the People’s Daily called for the creation of corporate and individual
credit dossiers, arguing that sincerity, being the root of morality, was indispensible



28 Eno, Robert. Confucian Creation of Heaven, The: Philosophy and the Defense of Ritual Mastery.

SUNY Press, 1990.
29 Fairbrother, Gregory P. "The Chinese paternalistic state and moral education." Citizenship education

in China: Preparing citizens for the “Chinese Century (2014): 11-26: 19.
30 Brady, Anne-Marie. Marketing dictatorship: Propaganda and thought work in contemporary Chi-

na. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2009; Shambaugh, David. "China's propaganda system: Institu-
tions, processes and efficacy." The China Journal 57 (2007): 25-58.
31 Jiang, Yonglin. The mandate of heaven and the great Ming code. University of Washington Press, 2011,

176-177.
32 Thornton, Patricia M. Disciplining the state: virtue, violence, and state-making in modern China.

Vol. 283. Harvard University Press, 2007.
33 Chen, Dan. "“Supervision by Public Opinion” or by Government Officials? Media Criticism and

Central-Local Government Relations in China." Modern China 43.6 (2017): 620-645.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
in developing China’s market economy34. SCS policy documents claim its objective is
to stimulate “sincerity” (chengxin) and “trustworthiness” (yongxin). The Joint Punish-
ment System, analyzed in detail below, explicitly targets acts of “untrustworthiness”
(shixin). The SCS can also be seen as a response to a moral crisis in politics. It came to
prominence during a time where the political initiative had moved from the centre
to the localities, resulting in perceptions of weak central leadership and rampant lo-
cal corruption. To the extent that the SCS is also aimed to better check the perfor-
mance of local administrations, it forms part of efforts started in the second half of
the Hu Jintao administration and accelerated under Xi Jinping to centralize power,
strengthen discipline and return the Party and its mission civilatrice back to promi-
nence35.

Complex systems engineering as basic theoretical approach for social intervention

Chinese political tradition has, for centuries, conceived of society as an organic
whole, where harmony can be achieved if all its members conduct themselves as ap-
propriate to their position in public and civil structures. Yet not until the consolida-
tion of CCP rule would there be a comprehensive governing authority, capable of
penetrating society and influencing the daily lives of citizens nationwide. After the
disaster of the Cultural Revolution, the question how to apply that authority in pur-
suit of national development fostered a search for applicable intellectual frameworks
that would guide the Deng leadership’s more pragmatic, institutionalizing policies.
Critical in this process were ideas about systems theory, derived from natural sci-
ence and applied in the social context36. Influenced by Western scholarship on cy-
bernetics and systems theory, scholars such as Qian Xuesen and Song Jian worked
closely with government to develop a conceptual framework for the adoption of sys-
tems engineering techniques in governance. Particular regard was given to the role
of information flows, not just towards and within government, but also as part of
cybernetic feedback loops to create self-correcting responses in society. These ideas
also underpinned the “Golden Project”, a series of plans to develop information sys-
tems within about a dozen policy areas. In the area of social management, the
“Golden Shield” project deserves particular attention. This is a programme to create
a national infrastructure within the police and internal security bureaucracy, which
has rapidly become ever more potent in recent years, accruing better technological,
analysis and management capabilities37.

A corollary of the holistic, systems-based conceptualization of social reality is that its
elements are primarily evaluated in terms of their potential function in achieving the

34 “Chengxin - daode jianshe de genben [Sincerity - The Root of Moral Construction].” People’s Daily. 3

December 2001. Online: http://www.people.com.cn/GB/guandian/26/20011203/617481.html
35 Brown, Kerry, and Una Aleksandra Bērziņa-Čerenkova. "Ideology in the Era of Xi Jinping." Journal

of Chinese Political Science (2018): 1-17.
36 Hoffman, Samantha. Programming China: The Communist Party’s Autonomic Approach to Managing

State Security. PhD Dissertation, University of Nottingham. 2017. On file with author. Bakken,
Børge. The exemplary society: Human improvement, social control, and the dangers of modernity in China.
Clarendon Press, 2000.
37 Schwarck, Edward. "Intelligence and Informatization: The Rise of the Ministry of Public Security in

Intelligence Work in China." The China Journal 80.1 (2018)




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
objectives of the system. Party members, individual citizens, government officials,
businesses, neighbourhood committees and social organizations are all supposed to
contribute to the realization of social harmony and economic development. This, in
turn, blurs the boundaries between public and private actors. In contrast, Western
legal systems, lacking the strong teleological focus of Chinese Communist Party
(CCP) ideology, tend to delineate the rights, obligations, entitlements and responsi-
bilities of public and private actor through well-delineated categories of state and
society. As Thornton posits, this fluidity between was already one of the key charac-
teristics of late imperial society rendering traditional state-society dichotomies inva-
lid for the case of China38. Philip Huang reaches a similar conclusion, conceptualiz-
ing a “third realm” that intermediated between the central state and the grass roots39.
Key players in this third realm were the scholar-gentry elites, usually educated and
privately wealthy individuals without official appointments in the bureaucracy who,
often on a voluntary basis, were active in local governance, tax collection and educa-
tion40. The central state also sought to overcome its limited capacity by mobilizing its
subjects into forms of collective self-governance, such as the baojia system in the
Ming and Qing dynasties.

The SCS embodies this logic as made possible by information technology. Its core
function is to create a system whereby the compliance of individuals and businesses
with laws and regulations is increasingly monitored, and the consequences of non-
compliance subject to swift and efficient sanction. Within this process, the support of
private parties is enlisted for both information capture and enforcement. In other
words, the “social” dimension of the SCS also entails that members of society create
the incentives for each other to act in the desired manner, without direct intervention
of State actors.

II. Early steps towards a SCS

The notion of social credit first emerged in debates concerning the development of
China’s nascent market economy. Trust was identified as a critical element in sup-
porting market transaction, and one that in China was sorely lacking41. The first
high-level political mention of the social credit system came in the Political Report
that the outgoing Secretary General Jiang Zemin delivered at the 16th Party Congress
in 2002. This called for the establishment of a social credit system, as part of a broad-
er effort to deepen modernization of the market system42. Here already, the separa-
tion between two major elements of the SCS was visible: on the one hand, credit re-
ferred to financial creditworthiness, similar to FICO scores in the United States; on


38 Thornton, 2007.
39 Huang, Philip CC. "" Public Sphere"/" Civil Society" in China? The Third Realm between State and

Society." Modern China 19.2 (1993): 216-240.
40 Shue, Vivienne. The Reach of the State: Sketches of the Chinese Body Politic. Stanford UP, 1988.
41 Yang, Chengxun, and Qiao, Farong. "Shichang jingji shi xinyong jingji [The Market Economy is a

Credit Economy]." People's Daily, 18 January 2001. Online:
http://www.people.com.cn/GB/jinji/36/20010118/381270.html
42 Zai Zhongguo Gongchandang di shiliuci quanguo daibiao dahuishang de baogao [Report at the

16th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party], 8 November 2002. Online:
http://cpc.people.com.cn/GB/64162/64168/64569/65444/4429120.html




                     Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
the other hand, it referred to a broader notion of trust and honest conduct in the
marketplace.

 The People’s Bank of China and related institutions took some initial steps to regu-
late financial credit reporting43. Building on the “Bank Credit Registry and Consult-
ing System”, established in 1997, the People’s Bank of China established a “Credit
Reference Centre” in 2006, which was the only national credit-scoring bureau. Banks
and other financial entities were obliged to report on their client’s creditworthiness,
with supplementary, non-financial information being transmitted from courts, gov-
ernment departments, telecommunications companies and fiscal authorities. How-
ever, at that time, comparatively few Chinese citizens held bank accounts, and the
majority of transactions were settled in cash, marking it more difficult to provide ad-
equate and accurate credit scores. By 2012, only 280 million citizens were reported to
have a credit report44.

It would, however, take five years before the first concrete policy and organizational
measures were taken concerning broader social credit ideas. In April 2007, the State
Council established an interministerial joint conference for the construction of the
SCS, with a membership clearly reflecting the primarily economic nature of the initi-
ative as it stood then45. Its remit was framed broadly: planning the system’s con-
struction, researching and drafting major policy measures, trouble-shooting and
overseeing policy implementation. An accompanying State Council policy document
outlined more specific objectives. First, it required the creation of better credit infor-
mation records in the market economy, with particular reference to tax compliance,
contract implementation and product quality. Second, it demanded the creation of
credit information systems, particularly for the financial sector. Third, it called for
the development of credit service markets, with government departments playing a
leading role through increasing transparency of data it held on credit subjects within
their jurisdiction46. By that time some departments had already started working on
ways to exchange information47.

While the initial efforts surrounding the SCS were primarily focused on market eco-
nomic concerns, the linkage between credit and social management started being

43 Guanyu qiye he geren zhengxin tixi jianshe youguan wenti de tongzhi [Notice concerning Issues

concerning the Construction of a Credit Reporting System for Enterprises and Individuals]. People's
Bank of China, et al. 20 May 2002; Guanyu geren zhengxin xitong jianshe youguan wenti de tongzhi
[Notice concerning Issues on the Construction of a Personal Credit Reporting System]. People's Bank
of China. 1 February 2002.
44 Zhou, Cuiling. "Credit Information Database in China." Presented at 4th Credit Reporting and Risk

Management Conference, Kuala Lumpur, 5-9 November 2012.
45 See table 1.
46 Guanyu shehui xinyong tixi jianshe de ruogan yijian [Some Opinions concerning the Construction

of a Social Credit System]. State Council General Office. 23 March 2007. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2007/03/23/state-council-general-office-some-
opinions-concerning-the-construction-of-a-social-credit-system/
47 Guanyu zai shehui xinyong tixi jianshe zhong jiaqiang qiye chengxin xinxi ziyuan gongxiang hezuo

de huiyi jiyao [Record from the Conference on Strengthening Enterprise Sincerity Information Re-
source Sharing and Cooperation in the COnstruction of a Social Credit System]. People's Bank of Chi-
na, General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine. 30 August 2006.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
explored in local initiatives. In some cases, such as in Yichang, this meant the crea-
tion of honorary titles, such as “credit towns” and “credit communities” for localities
with a “good credit atmosphere48”. Perhaps the best-reported example, however, is
the county of Suining, in Jiangsu province. In 2010, Suining introduced a “mass cred-
it” (dazhong xinyong) programme, which measured and scored individual conduct.
Citizens were given 1000 credit points to start with. Points could be deducted for in-
fringement of specific legal, administrative and moral norms. For instance, a convic-
tion for drunk driving cost 50 points, having a child without family planning per-
mission cost 35 points, and non-repayment of loans 30 to 50 points. Lost points could
be recovered after a period of two to five years, depending on the rule broken and
the gravity of the infraction. On the basis of the resulting scores, citizens were cate-
gorized from A to D. While A-class citizens would be granted preferential access to
employment opportunities, lower-ranked citizens were to face increasing levels of
scrutiny when undergoing particular examination requirements. These included (1)
political examination for Party membership, enlistment in the military, and ap-
pointment as civil servant; (2) processes to qualify for government procurement
vendor, low-cost government housing, and basic social welfare; (3) business licenses
for establishment as an individual business operator (getihu), including in the
healthcare and transportation sector, as well as state monopolies such as salt and to-
bacco, and (4) governmental support, including subsidies, low-interest loans and
government-sponsored skills training. The Suining government created a public rec-
ord of the points their deducted, listing culprits’ names and actions49.

The Suining experiment attracted considerable attention, as well as criticism from
State media. Official press bureau Xinhua compared the system to the “Good Citizen
Cards” (liangminzheng) that the Japanese occupation authorities issued during the
Second World War50. The Global Times argued that it shouldn’t be the task of gov-
ernment to control citizens in this manner, but should be subject to citizen oversight
instead51. The A-D classification was subsequently dropped. Nonetheless, the Su-
ining system already contained the embryonic forms of several elements of subse-
quent social credit initiatives: the notion of disproportional disincentives against
rule-breaking, public naming and shaming of wrongdoers, and most importantly,
the expansion of the credit mechanism outside of the market economic context, also
encompassing compliance with administrative regulations and urban management
rules (See table 3).

48 "Guanyu biaozhang 2006 niandu "xinyong cxiangzhen" he "xinyong shequ" de tongbao [Circular

concerning Awarding the "Credit Town" and "Credit Community" Titles for 2006]." Yichang Munici-
pal People's Government, 12 March 2007.
49 “Suining Xian dazhong xinyong guanli shixing banfa [Suining County Trial Management Rules for

Mass Credit].” Suining County Government. 1 January 2010. Online:
http://jssnfy.chinacourt.org/public/detail.php?id=388; “Suining Xian dazhong xinyong xinxi
pinggu xize [Suining County Implementation Regulations for Mass Credit Information Assessment].”
Suining County Government. 15 March 2010. Online: https://bkso.baidu.com/item/睢宁县大众信用
信息评估细则
50 “Jiangsu Suining: "Xinyongfen" rang huairen chikui haoren deli [Suining, Jiangsu: "Credit Points"

Let Bad People Suffer and Good People Benefit].” Xinhua. 19 June 2014. Online:
http://news.xinhuanet.com/2014-06/19/c_1111213122.htm.
51 “China’s Social Credit System Won’t Be Orwellian.” Global Times. 1 November 2016. Online:

http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/1015248.shtml.




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
Another local initiative that followed in the wake of the 2007 policy emerged from
the province of Zhejiang and its capital, Hangzhou. Hangzhou had already estab-
lished a “Credit Hangzhou” coordination mechanism involving 69 government de-
partments in 2002, while the provincial government issued regulations about the col-
lection and publication of credit information concerning enterprises in 200552. The
following year, Hangzhou published a social credit system development plan for the
11th Five-Year Plan cycle, followed by the provincial-level equivalent in 2007. Going
much further than the central plan, the Zhejiang provincial government expanded
the definition of credit from the market economy to also include the sincerity of civil
servants. It also foreshadowed the construction of information management infra-
structure that would be necessary to scale credit mechanisms at anything above
small-town level. At the heart of its plan lay the use of information sharing plat-
forms, one for corporations and one for individuals53. For the latter, a three-stage
process was envisaged. In the first stage, experiments with basic information sys-
tems took place in individual localities and departments. During the second stage,
information would be broadly collected. One focus was on specific professions,
ranging from chartered accountants and land value appraisers to medical profes-
sionals, journalists and tour guides. A second focus was compliance with taxation
regulations, lending obligations, performance in individual judgments and payment
of utility and social security fees. The third stage comprised better cross-regional in-
formation sharing, as well as exploring new forms of using the information collect-
ed54.

At the central level as well, it was realized that credit-related mechanisms could be
applied to more fields than merely the market economy, particularly in managing
Party and state actors, as well as in social management. This evolution coincided
with a rapid expansion of security, surveillance and social management structures,
as well as a renewed political focus on spiritual and moral affairs. The increasing
adoption of smartphones and social media led to a public sphere buzzing with polit-
ical scandals and rumours, but also fraud and depictions of a perceived moral vacu-
um. Revelations about scandalous conduct by local Party officials not only became
near-daily occurrences, but the speed at which information was disseminated online
meant they rapidly gained visibility in a manner that propaganda authorities were
largely powerless to prevent. Clips of scandalous individual conduct, from a TV da-
ting show participant claiming she’d rather cry in a BMW than smile on the back of a
bicycle55 to the gruesome death of a toddler in a hit-and-run car accident, where sub-
sequently not a single bystander came to the assistance56, caused national outcry.
Food security scandals, such as the discovery of melamine in infant milk formula,

52 "Qiye xinyong xinxi zhengji he fabu guanli banfa [Enterprise Credit Information Collection and

Dissemination Management Rules]." Zhejiang Provincial People's Government, 1 September 2005.
Online: https://baike.baidu.com/item/浙江省企业信用信息征集和发布管理办法
53 http://www.nbaic.gov.cn/art/2008/9/3/art_2022_22054.html
54 Ibid. Section 2.3.
55 Cockain, Alex. "Regarding subjectivities and social life on the screen: the ambivalences of spectator-

ship in the People’s Republic of China." China Online. Routledge, 2014. 63-80.
56 Wang, Wilfred Yang. "Weibo, framing, and media practices in China." Journal of Chinese Political Sci-

ence 18.4 (2013): 375-388.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
further eroded trust in governance institutions57. In response, the leadership initiated
a resurgence of attention for “spiritual civilization construction”, amongst others by
dedicating the 6th Plenum of the 17th Party Congress in 2011 to culture and ideology.
The Decision emanating from this plenum called for the construction of a credit sys-
tem to foster sincerity in society, not only in commercial affairs, but also in matters
of social and political morality58.

This policy shift greatly affected the conception of the social credit system. It would
not only focus on trustworthiness (and creditworthiness) in the marketplace, but
was seen as having an important role in transforming the overall governance strate-
gies and tactics of the CCP. Consequently, the membership of the Interministerial
Joint Conference was expanded: high profile Party bodies such as the Central Disci-
pline Inspection Committee (the internal anti-corruption watchdog), the Central Po-
litical Legal Committee (which oversees internal security, including the judiciary
and the police), the Central Propaganda Department and the Central Leading Group
for Spiritual Civilization Construction joined the group, together with a number of
their associated ministries. The Supreme People’s Court and Supreme People’s Proc-
uratorate were also added, indicating a growing role for the judiciary. With the
mandate of the 6th Plenum, this group started drafting a much more ambitious and
wide-ranging social credit plan, which saw the light of day in the spring of 2014.

III. The Social Credit System after 2014

The 2014 Social Credit Plan

The 2014 “Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System” remains
the most authoritative blueprint for subsequent SCS efforts, and represented a major
advance in political thought on social credit at the national level. Building on previ-
ous local initiatives, such as the ones in Hangzhou and Zhejiang described earlier,
this new plan combined the economic aspects of credit, both concerning financial
creditworthiness and trust in the market, with the broader initiative to enhance so-
cial harmony and discipline government. It put forward a timetable until 2020 for
the realization of five major objectives: creating a legal and regulatory framework for
the SCS, building credit investigation and oversight, fostering a flourishing market
built on credit services, and completing incentive and punishment mechanisms. It
identified priority fields in four major policy areas59. In government affairs, the SCS
would increase transparency, enhance lawful administration, build trustworthiness

57 Yang, Guobin. "Contesting food safety in the Chinese media: Between hegemony and counter-

hegemony." The China Quarterly 214 (2013): 337-355.
58 "Guanyu shenhua wenhua tizhi gaige de jueding [Decision Concerning Deepening Cultural Struc-

tural Reform]." Central Committee. 18 October 2011. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2011/10/18/central-committee-of-the-chinese-
communist-party-decision-concerning-deepening-cultural-structural-reform/
59 "Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe guihua gangyao [Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social

Credit System (2014-2020)]." State Council. 14 June 2014. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2014/06/14/planning-outline-for-the-
construction-of-a-social-credit-system-2014-2020/. A useful map of this sizeable and complex docu-
ment, created by Jeremy Daum, is available online. https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/map-of-the-
2014-2016-social-credit-plan/




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
for government actors, and display the government as a model of sincere conduct. In
the market economy, social credit, would enhance efficiency, trust and transparency
across a range of sectors, ranging from finance to construction, food and e-
commerce. In social services, the SCS would enhance trust in healthcare providers,
strengthen management over particular professions and enhance scrutiny over
online conduct. Lastly, the introduction of credit mechanisms would enable courts to
more effectively implement judgments, enhance information sharing about parties in
lawsuits and support norms for the legal profession.

Moreover, the 2014 Plan focused on the creation of the underlying information infra-
structure that would be required for the system’s successful rollout. It systematically
provided for standardized means to record credit-related information in different
sections of the administration, databases to store this information at the central and
local levels, the establishment of credit reporting mechanisms to enable public access
to the information, as well as information sharing processes in order to counter the
siloing of data within the bureaucracy. The major programme that this infrastructure
would support is a system of rewards and punishments on the basis of blacklists and
redlists (which record particularly conspicuous merit). These incentive mechanisms
would not only be implemented through governmental means, but also through
market mechanisms and self-regulatory regimes in particular sectors. The final sec-
tions of the document address the development of credit service markets, data and
information protection, and specific guidelines for implementation.

The 2014 plan thus created a comprehensive roadmap that is gradually being im-
plemented, containing substantive provisions, as well as measures to create the un-
derlying technical, bureaucratic and financial support systems. It identified the ma-
jor mechanisms that would be implemented, in particular the incentive and punish-
ment systems that now form the major operational elements of the SCS. Interesting-
ly, however, the document does not identify quantitative scoring as an evaluation
method. Neither does it contain reference to the sort of correlative big data analytics
that foreign observers have ascribed to the SCS.

The Joint Punishment System

The major programme outlined in the 2014 Plan was a system of rewards and pun-
ishments for sincere and untrustworthy conduct. The principle behind punishments
was disproportional sanction, as summarized in the phrase “if trust is broken in one
place, restrictions are imposed everywhere60”. The programme is based on a blacklist
system: identified miscreants are entered on a published list, which means they are
blocked from specific activities. The first area where this mechanism was imple-
mented, and still the most wide-ranging one, is the punishment system for “un-

60 "Guanyu jiakuai tuijin shixin bei zhixing ren xinyong jiandu, jingshi he chengjie jizhi jianshe de yiji-

an [Opinions concerning Accelerating the Construction of Credit Supervision, Warning and Punish-
ment Mechanisms for Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking]." Central Committee and
State Council. 25 September 2016. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2016/09/25/opinions-concerning-accelerating-
the-construction-of-credit-supervision-warning-and-punishment-mechanisms-for-persons-subject-to-
enforcement-for-trust-breaking/




                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
trustworthy persons subject to enforcement” (shixin bei zhixing ren), which addresses
non-performance of legally binding judgments. Subsequently, individual depart-
ments started developing their own, more focused blacklist systems for their own
policy areas.

The origins of this system lie in the 2012 revision of the Civil Litigation Law, which
stipulated that, where individuals did not carry out legal obligations arising from a
court judgment, courts could prohibit them from leaving the country, create an entry
in their credit file and publish their names in news media61. As this principle was
worded rather vaguely, individual courts started implementing these rules in an in-
consistent manner. In order to systematize matters, the Supreme People’s Court is-
sued more detailed regulations in 201362 for a comprehensive blacklist system. These
stipulate that anyone who is obliged and capable of carrying out a valid legal docu-
ment, such as a court order or administrative decision, and fails to do so, will be en-
tered on a blacklist. In principle, they will remain on that list for a period of two
years, except in certain circumstances where that period may be extended. If they
perform the required obligation earlier, a court may decide to remove them from the
list63. The rules required the SPC to publish the name list through mass media and
online. Moreover, government departments, supervisory institutions, financial insti-
tutions, sectoral associations and credit agencies were required to extend penalties to
those listed in areas including government procurement, bid tendering, administra-
tive approvals, government subsidies, access to credit, market access and assessment
of qualifications. Lastly, where state employees, People’s Congress or Consultative
Conference members, State-owned enterprises or public institutions were listed, ad-
ditional political scrutiny applied.

Early in 2016, 45 Party bodies, government departments and judicial institutions, in-
cluding the National Development and Reform Commission, the Supreme People’s
Court, the People’s Bank of China, and the Chinese Youth League concluded a
memorandum of understanding to further clarify their respective roles in what had
now become known as the Joint Punishment System. This memorandum contained
32 headings where these bodies were required to assist enquiry into information
they held, use blacklist status when reviewing applications, or restricting individuals
and businesses from particular actions (See table 4). A first category of restrictions
affected economic opportunities, limiting access to establish companies in the finan-
cial sectors, issue bonds, receive stock options, establish social organizations or par-

61 Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo minshi susong fa [Civil Procedure Law of the People's Republic of

China]. 9 April 1991. Revised 31 August 2012.Article 255.
62 Ironically, these regulations were published on the same day as data protection and real-name reg-

istration requirements for mobile telephone and Internet users. "Guanyu gongbu shixin bei zhixing
ren mingdan xinxi de ruogan guiding [Some Regulations concerning Publishing Name List Infor-
mation of Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-Breaking]." Supreme People's Court. 16 July 2013.
Translation available online: https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2013/07/16/some-
regulations-concerning-publishing-name-list-information-of-persons-subject-to-enforcement-for-
trust-breaking/
63 "Guanyu renzhen guanche zhixing 'Guanyu gongbu shixin bei zhixing ren mingdan xinxi de ru-

ogan guiding' de tongzhi [Notice concerning the Earnest Implementation of the 'Some Regulations
concerning Publishing Name List Information of Persons Subject to Enforcement for Trust-
Breaking']." Supreme People's Court. 2 August 2013. Online: http://m.055110.com/zq/6/249.html




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
ticipate in government procurement programmes. Second, they could no longer re-
ceive government subsidies or in-kind support. Third, they were barred from senior
positions in SOEs, financial sector companies and social organizations, as well as
from entry into the civil service, the Communist Party, and the military. Fourth, they
were restricted from particular sectors, including food, drugs, fireworks and dan-
gerous chemicals, and refused authenticated status for customs purposes. Fifth,
blacklist entrants were no longer eligible for honorary titles, and special procedures
were required where they applied for loans. Sixth, they were barred from purchas-
ing real estate, land-use rights, and exploitation of natural resources. Lastly, and
perhaps most notoriously, black list entrants (and where it concerns legal persons,
their senior staff) faced restrictions on conspicuous consumption. They were no
longer allowed to travel first class, on high-speed trains, or on civil aircraft, to visit
star-rated hotels or luxury restaurants, resorts, nightclubs and golf courses, to go on
foreign holidays, to send their children to fee-paying schools, to purchase particular
kinds of high-value insurance products, to buy or renovate their homes, or purchase
cars.

Later that year, the Central Committee General Office and the State Council General
Office jointly issued a set of opinions that confirmed these substantive measures, and
provided more detailed procedural standards for the blacklist system64. The docu-
ment also encouraged local governments, social organizations and businesses to in-
stitute further punishments and restrictions of their own, based on blacklist status.
In some cities, individuals placing telephone calls to blacklisted persons are notified
that “the person you are calling is on the central credit blacklist”, before connection65.
Alibaba’s Taobao and Tmall e-commerce platforms, for instance, block blacklisted
individuals from making luxury purchases66. According to a spokesperson for the
National Development and Reform Commission, which oversees the SCS, over 9
million plane ticket sales and over 3 million rail ticket sales were blocked through
the blacklist system by March 201867.

Departmental and local incentive and punishment schemes

Following the initial experience with punishment for failure to perform court judg-
ments, the blacklist scheme was expanded to include the broader administrative ap-
paratus. Individual ministries started publishing separate systems for blacklisting
within their own jurisdictions, with specific memorandums of understanding being

64 2016 Punishment System Opinions, n. 60. Note that this covers both natural persons and legal per-

sons. The text of this document does not distinguish these two categories.
65 Vanderklippe, Nathan. “Chinese blacklist an early glimpse of sweeping new social-credit control.”

Globe and Mail. 3 January 2018. Online:
https://www.theglobeandmail.com/amp/news/world/chinese-blacklist-an-early-glimpse-of-
sweeping-new-social-credit-control/
66 Ahmed, Shazeda. “Cashless Society, Cached Data: Security Considerations For A Chinese Social

Credit System.” CitizenLab. 24 january 2017. Online: https://citizenlab.ca/2017/01/cashless-society-
cached-data-security-considerations-chinese-social-credit-system/
67 "Zhang Yong: Jianshe shehui xinyong tixi yao guifan 'honghei mingdan' de tuichu jizhi he chayi

chuli jizhi [Zhang Yong: The Construction of the Social Credit System Requires Standardization of
Withdrawal Mechanisms and Dispute Handling Mechanisms for 'Redlists and Blacklists']." Caijing. 6
March 2018. Online: http://economy.caijing.com.cn/20180306/4413422.shtml.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
signed on an ad hoc basis where cooperation was required. For instance, two sub-
regulations published in early 2018 created a blacklist for conduct involving train
and air travel respectively. Targeted infractions range from rail ticket scalping and
using false IDs to purchase preferential rail fares, to forcibly entering airplane cock-
pits and unnecessarily opening emergency exits. Individuals committing these acts
would be subject to a blanket travel restrictions for 180 days on railways, and a year
for air travel. On the other hand, the measures targeted “gravely untrustworthy con-
duct” in other areas, including tax evasion, financial misconduct, and social security
fraud, as well as being listed on the original joint punishment blacklist. For trains,
offenders in these cases were subject to a partial ban: as with the joint punishment
system, they were barred from high-speed trains, and first-class seats and sleepers
on slower services. For air travel, they would also be subject to a comprehensive
ban68. Further specific measures emerged for, among others, the insurance sector69,
logistics and transportation70, the oil and gas sector71, housing72, food security73 and
environmental protection74.

68 Guanyu zai yiding qijian nei shidan xianzhi teding yanzhong shixinren chengzuo huoche tuidong

shehui xinyong tixi jianshe de yijian [Opinions concerning Appropriately Limiting Specific Gravely
Untrustworthy Persons from Riding Trains for a Certain Period, and Promoting the Construction of
the Social Credit System]." National Development and Reform Commission et al. 17 March 2018.
Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2018/03/17/opinions-concerning-appropriately-
limiting-specific-gravely-untrustworthy-persons-from-riding-trains-for-a-certain-period-and-
promoting-the-construction-of-the-social-credit-system/
Guanyu zai yiding qixian nei shidang xianzhi teding yanzhong shixinren chengzuo minyong
hankongqi tuidong shehui xinyong tixi jianshe de yijian [Opinions concerning Appropriately Limit-
ing Specific Gravely Untrustworthy Persons from Traveling on Civil Aircraft for a Certain Period, and
Promoting the Construction of the Social Credit System]." National Development and Reform Com-
mission et al. 2 March 2018. Translation available online:
https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2018/03/18/opinions-concerning-appropriately-
limiting-specific-gravely-untrustworthy-persons-from-traveling-on-civil-aircraft-for-a-certain-period-
and-promoting-the-construction-of-the-social-credit-system/
69

"Guanyi dui baoxian linyu weifa shixin xiangguan zeren zhuti shishi lianhe chengjie de hezuo bei-
wanglu [Memorandum of Understanding concerning Cooperation in Implementing Joint Punishment
Against Relevant Responsible Subjects for Law-breaking and Untrustworthiness in the Insurance Ar-
ea]." National Development and Reform Commission et al. 28 August 2017. Online:
http://www.ndrc.gov.cn/zcfb/zcfbtz/201708/t20170830_859400.html
70"Guanyu dui yunshu wuliu hangye yanzhong weifa shixin shichang zhuti ji youguan renyuan shi-

shi lianhe chengjie de hezuo beiwanglu [Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation concerning
Implementing Joint Punishment against Law-Breaking and Untrustworthy Market Subjects and Rele-
vant Persons in the Transportation and Logistics Sector]." National Development and Reform Com-
mission. 24 August 2017. Online:
http://www.ndrc.gov.cn/zcfb/zcfbtz/201709/t20170906_860217.html
71 "Guanyu dui shiyou tianranqi hangye yanzhong weifa shixin zhuti shishi lianhe chengjie de hezuo

beiwanglu [Memorandum of Understanding on Coorperation concerning Implementing Joint Pun-
ishment Against Law-breaking and Untrustworthy Subjects in the Oil and Natural Gas Sector]." Na-
tional Development and Reform Commission. 2 August 2017.
http://www.ndrc.gov.cn/gzdt/201708/t20170828_858894.html
72 "Guanyu dui fangdichan lingyu xiangguan shixin zeren zhuti shishi lianhe chengjie de hezuo bei-

wanglu [Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation concerning Implementing Joint Punish-
ment against Untrustworthy Responsible Subjects Connected to the Real Estate Area]." National De-
velopment and Reform Commission et al. 23 June 2017. Online:
https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/lianhejiangjie/lhjcgzdt/201709/t20170922_47420.html




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
To ensure consistency and interoperability between these various systems, the
NDRC and the PBoC published regulations that outlined which departments were
entitled to run blacklist and redlist systems, and what information they could use to
make their decisions. These include (1) registration information held by government,
(2) information on criminal and administrative punishment, licences, inspections
and other administrative processes, (3) information on compliance with court ver-
dicts; (4) information on potential honorary titles and awards received, and (5) in-
formation that specific laws and regulations may define75. Industry associations and
chambers of commerce could be authorized to also establish redlist and blacklist sys-
tems. Furthermore, industry associations and chambers of commerce, big data en-
terprises, financial institutions, news media, social organizations, as well as individ-
ual citizens were “encouraged” to report (un)trustworthy conduct to the authorities,
and to participate in creating constraints on blacklisted individuals, as well as “green
channels” for those on redlists. Lastly, in cases where particular undesired conduct
did not meet the standard for listing on a blacklist, the NDRC permitted the creation
of a “key scrutiny” list. These lists had to be shared on the national credit information
platform, but not necessarily made public. Where a particular entrant was present on
three separate key scrutiny list, they would be flagged on a publicly available “Big
Data Warning List”76.

As seen earlier, a considerable number of local governments had initiated social
credit initiatives far ahead of the central government, and were ready to incorporate
the blacklist systems within their own jurisdictions. Sometimes, these were connect-
ed to petty infractions. For instance, the city of Ningbo listed individuals for fare-



73 "Guanyu dui shipin yaopin shengchan jingying yanzhong shixinzhe kaizhan lianhe chengjie de

hezuo beiwanglu [Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation concerning Launching Joint Pun-
ishment against the Gravely Untrustworthy in Food and Drug Production and Trading]." National
Development and Reform Commission et al. 13 September 2016. Online:
https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/biaozhunguifan/hangyexingbiaozhunguifan/201801/t20180104_1
05591.html
74 "Guanyu dui huanjing baohu lingyu shixin shengchan jingyin danwei ji qi youguan renyuan kai-

zhan lianhe chengjie de hezuo beiwanglu [Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation concern-
ing Launching Joint Punishment against Untrustworthy Production and Trading Work Units and
their Relevant Staff in the Area of Environmental Protection]." National Development and Reform
Commission et al. 20 July 2016 Online:
https://www.creditchina.gov.cn/zhengcefagui/zhengcefagui/201709/t20170916_43872.html
75 "Guanyu jiaqiang he guifan shouxin lianhe jili he shixin lianhe chengjie duixiang mingdan guanli

gongzuo de zhidao yijian [Guiding Opinions on Strengthening and Regulating Efforts on the Man-
agement of Lists of Persons Receiving Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness or Joint Punishment for
Untrustworthiness]." National Development and Reform Commission, and People's Bank of China. 30
October 2017. Translation available online: https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/国家发展改革委-人
民银行关于加强和规范-守信联/?lang=en
76 "Guanyu zuohao 'guanyu jiaqiang he guifan shouxin lianhe jili he shixin lianhe chengjie duixiang

mingdan guanli gongzuo de zhidao yijian [Notice on Successful Implementation of the 'Guiding
Opinions on Strengthening and Regulating Efforts on the Management of Lists of Persons Receiving
Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness or Joint Punishment for Untrustworthiness']." National Devel-
opment and Reform Commission. 19 January 2018. Translation available online:
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/关于加强和规范守信联合激励和失信联合惩戒对象/




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
dodging on local public transport77, while Shenzhen installed facial recognition cam-
eras and listed repeatedly caught jaywalkers78. Provincial governments started pub-
lishing detailed regulations for the management of social credit information. These
explicitly excluded information on someone’s religious affiliation, as well as bio-
metric data79. One particularly salient initiative emerged in Shanghai, where the
municipal government sponsored the development of a smartphone app called
Honest Shanghai. On the one hand, this app allowed users to check the credit report
of local businesses, such as restaurants and international trading businesses. The app
also allowed its users to sign up with their ID card number or through facial recogni-
tion, in order to obtain a tailored credit report for themselves. While no punishments
would result from a poor score, high-scoring individuals would be eligible for bene-
fits such as discount flight bookings80.

In a bid to propagate particularly successful local social credit initiatives, at the end
of 2017, the NDRC and PBoC designated twelve “model cities”, from which im-
portant lessons could be learnt81. This list illustrates the diversity of local credit trials
depending on their location, size, economic structure and level of economic devel-
opment., Ximen, a prosperous port city on the Taiwan Straits, was listed for its
achievements in expanding the credit structure to the processing of imported and
exported goods, as well as the efforts it had made to improve healthcare, education
and legal services through social credit82. Suqian, a smaller city in the province of
Jiangsu that has attracted some of Shanghai’s ICT industry, gained plaudits for the
quality of its technical infrastructure and security arrangements, as well as its locally
developed “Credit Plus” model, which actively stimulates local businesses and or-
ganizations to make public credit commitments83. Yiwu, China’s leading trading hub
for manufactured goods, was held up as an example for integrating credit with fi-



77 "Ditie taopiao naru geren xinyong dang'an [Subway Fare-Dodging Entered into Personal Credit

File]." Hexun News. 26 July 2016. Online: http://news.hexun.com/2016-07-26/185154311.html
78 "Shenzhen tui 'zhineng xingren guojie xitong' chuang hongdeng bei pai jiang yingxiang zhengxin

[Shenzhen Introduces 'Smart Pedestrian Crossing System', Walking Through Red Lights and Being
Photographed Will Influence Credit Records]." Ifeng.com. 3 March 2017. Online:
http://m.ifeng.com/house/shareNews?fromType=vampire&aid=sub_9404335
79 "Shanghai Shi shehui xinyong tiaoli [Shanghai Municipal Social Credit Regulations]." Shanghai

Municipal Government. 23 June 2017. Translation available online:
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/上海市社会信用条例/
80 O’Meara, Sarah. “New App Rates Shanghai Citizens’ Honesty.” Sixth Tone. 14 November 2016.

Online: http://www.sixthtone.com/news/1554/new-app-rates-shanghai-citizens%20-honesty.
81 "Guanyu yinfa shoupi shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi mingdan de tongzhi [Notice con-

cerning Issuing the Name List of the First Batch of Social Credit System Construction Demonstration
Cities]." National Development and Reform Commission, and People's Bank of China. 28 December
2017. Online: http://www.ndrc.gov.cn/zcfb/zcfbtz/201801/t20180109_873397.html
82 "Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi dianxing jingyan jieshao zhi san: Xiamen Shi [Social

Credit System Construction Demonstration Cities, Introduction of Typical Experience No. 3: Xiamen
Municipality]." Xinhua. 6 February 2018. Online:
http://credit.xinhua08.com/a/20180206/1748111.shtml
83 "Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi dianxing jingyan jieshao zhi liu: Suqian Shi [Social

Credit System Construction Demonstration Cities, Introduction of Typical Experience No. 6: Suqian
Municipality]." Xinhua. 6 February 2018. Online:
http://credit.xinhua08.com/a/20180209/1748612.shtml




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
nance, foreign trade and market supervision84. Weihai, a seaport in Shandong, was
commended for the efficient way in which individuals could access the credit infor-
mation system, and its initiative in producing clear lists of reward and punishment
measures. It also had introduced a ranking system for businesses, dividing them into
four tiers based on their compliance with market regulations85. Another city in
Shandong, Rongcheng, entered the list on the strength of its tiered system for indi-
viduals, ranking them in six classes, from AAA to D86. The experiences from these
cities will serve to further enhance the functioning of the provincial-level and na-
tional credit systems.

The blacklist systems have received criticism both inside and outside of China, ad-
dressing both the principle of the punishment system and reported instances where
the system did not work as prescribed. Apart from concerns about privacy and the
principle of disproportional punishment, news media and institutions such as Hu-
man Rights Watch identified cases where individuals who had been politically ac-
tive had been listed without proper notification, and without apparent recourse to
appeals procedures87. Various documents, including the 2016 Opinions, indicate that
individuals must receive prior warning before entry on the blacklist, and have the
right to appeal. Where they fulfilled their legal obligations, courts must remove their
information from the blacklist system within three days, and all bodies that imposed
restrictions must remove these promptly. A question requiring further research is
the extent to which this is the consequence of teething troubles, incompetence or in-
tent. The NDRC, for its part, has recognized the necessity of this element of the sys-
tem to work, in order to buttress its legitimacy as a whole, and identified it as a pri-
ority area for revision88.

The Social Credit System and information technology

The SCS is a poster-child example of what the Chinese government sees as a process
of informatization in governance. It uses information technology to transform the
manner in which Chinese government authorities manage both state and society, by
horizontal and vertical information sharing, overcoming the principle-agent prob-

84 "Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi dianxing jingyan jieshao zhi shiyi: Yiwu Shi [Social

Credit System Construction Demonstration Cities, Introduction of Typical Experience No. 11: Yiwu
Municipality]." Xinhua. 6 February 2018. Online:
http://credit.xinhua08.com/a/20180214/1748625.shtml
85 "Shehui xinyong tixi jianshe shifan chengshi dianxing jingyan jieshao zhi jiu: Weihai Shi [Social

Credit System Construction Demonstration Cities, Introduction of Typical Experience No. 9: Weihai
Municipality]." Xinhua. 6 February 2018. Online:
http://credit.xinhua08.com/a/20180212/1748619.shtml
86 "Shandong Rongcheng: Xinyong jianshe jie shuoguo renren dou you 'chengxin shenfenzheng'

[Rongheng, Shandong: Credit Construction Yields Great Results, Everyone Has 'Sincerity ID']." Credit
China. 5 February 2018. Online:
http://www.creditchina.gov.cn/chengxinwenhua/chengshichengxinwenhua/201802/t20180205_108
168.html. A detailed report about the Rongcheng trial can be found in Mistreanu, Simina. “Life Inside
China’s Social Credit Laboratory”. Foreign Policy. 3 April 2018. Online:
http://foreignpolicy.com/2018/04/03/life-inside-chinas-social-credit-laboratory/
87 Wang, Maya. “China’s Chilling ‘Social Credit’ Blacklist.” Human Rights Watch. 12 December 2017.

Online: https://www.hrw.org/news/2017/12/12/chinas-chilling-social-credit-blacklist
88 Caijing, 2018, n. 67.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
lems and departmental protectionism that continues to plague China’s governance
architecture, and digitizing data hitherto contained only on paper. To ensure this is
possible, the supporting technical infrastructure must ensure that subjects are identi-
fiable, information about them can be collected, stored, processed, shared and used.

A first, fundamental requirement for the system is to ensure everyone subject to it
can be identified. This happens at two levels: first, ensuring that there is a uniform
filing system that allocates unique identifiers to discrete subjects, and second, disa-
bling actors from acting anonymously. For individuals, the choice of identifier was
relatively simple. The 2003 Identity Card Law already mandated that identity cards
would carry a number that was the unique, lifelong identifier for a particular per-
son89. In 2004, a new generation of identity cards came into being, which carried an
18-digit code, replacing the 15-digit identifier present on older identity documents.
The 18-digit code combines information about the issuing local authority, date of
birth and individual sequencing. In 2013, when the SPC commenced the implemen-
tation of the joint punishment system, accompanying regulations clearly indicated
that the identity card number should be used for the purposes of that system90. The
requirement to limit anonymous conduct is not new; it is the reason for the introduc-
tion of number plates on cars, for instance. However, the broader adoption of digital
technology caused new challenges. To counter ubiquitous anonymity in the digital
environment, the leadership intensified efforts to introduce real-name registration
requirements, amongst others for acquiring (mobile) telephones91, using online ac-
count-based systems92, and in social media93. Furthermore, the Chinese state is ex-
panding its biometric identification databases to further enable identification of in-
dividuals and connecting this identification with state-held records94.

For corporations and other legal persons, the bureaucratic task was somewhat more
complicated. Historically, each regulator had their own numbering system under
which they would register businesses and organizations. Consequently, a business
would have one registration number for a business licence, another for fiscal pur-
poses, another for social security services and yet another for any special regulatory

89 "Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo jumin shenfenzheng fa [Resident Identity Card Law of the People's

Republic of China]." 28 June 2003.
90 2013 Name List Publication Regulations, n. 62.
91 "Dianhua yonghu zhenshi shenfen xinxi dengji guiding [Telephone User Real Identity Information

Registration Regulations]." Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. 17 July 2013. Transla-
tion available online: https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2013/07/16/telephone-user-
real-identity-information-registration-regulations/
92 "Hulianwang yonghu zhanghao mingcheng guanli guiding [Internet User Account Name Man-

agement Regulations]." Cyberspace Administration of China. 4 February 2015. Translation available
online: https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2015/02/04/internet-user-account-name-
management-regulations/
93 "Hulianwang luntan shequ fuwu guanli guiding [Provisions on the Management of Internet Forum

Community Services]." Cyberspace Administration of China. 25 August 2017. Translation available
online: https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2017/08/25/provisions-on-the-
management-of-internet-forum-community-services/
94 “China to build giant facial recognition database to identify any citizen within seconds.” South Chi-

na Morning Post. 12 October 2017. Online:
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/2115094/china-build-giant-facial-recognition-
database-identify-any




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
regimes they would fall under. This not only hampered effective integration of gov-
ernment information systems, it also created a considerable amount of red tape. The
initiative to integrate the major numbering systems was known first as “three licenc-
es into one” (san zheng he yi) and comprised administrative registration, tax registra-
tion and organizational registration. It was expanded to “five licences into one” (wu
zheng he yi) by adding social security and statistics registration numbers95. Under this
integrated system, only “one licence and one code” (yi zhao yi ma) would be required.
The new coding system was dubbed the “uniform social credit code” (tongyi shehui
xinyong daima), again consisting of an 18-digit code96. These unique identifiers, com-
bined with real-name registration systems for the digital environment, enable gov-
ernment to increasingly connect incoming data points to individuals and businesses.
These data points mostly comprise administrative and financial information, but are
increasingly supplemented by other sources, such as the facial recognition cameras
used in some of the local social credit projects. Also, the system is starting to use in-
formation originating from the private sector: ride-sharing service Didi Chuxing, for
instance, is providing information on the number of black-listed passengers it car-
ries97.

The second step is the creation of databases where information from different
sources can be appended to unique identifiers. Local governments had already es-
tablished such websites prior to 2014, and formulated catalogues for information to
be shared with the platform. The 2015 Shanghai catalogue, for instance, includes in-
formation from 99 work units, including 46 municipal administrative bodies, 17 dis-
trict-level governments, 10 Shanghai-based branches of central departments, 2 “peo-
ple's organizations”, the judiciary, 10 state-run institutions and 13 social organiza-
tions; it identified 3441 categories of credit information to be entered, of which 2770
concerned legal persons, and 671 natural persons98. Other credit information cata-
logues also contain limits on the duration at which infractions are listed. In June
2015, the NDRC and the State Information Centre jointly inaugurated the “Credit
China” platform, designed in collaboration with Baidu. The objective of this website,
and the underlying information platform it supports, is to concentrate all credit-
related information members of the Interministerial Joint Conference, was well as
governments at the local level, hold about individuals and corporate actors. Much of


95 Guanyu jiakuai tuijin 'wuzheng heyi, yizhao yima' dengji zhidu gaige de tongzhi [Notice concern-

ing Accelerating the Promotion of the "Uniting Five Licences, One Licence One Code" Registration
System Reform]." State Council. 30 June 2016. Online: http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2016-
07/05/content_5088351.htm
96 "Faren he qita zuzhi tongyi shehui xinyong daima bianma guiding [Coding Regulations for the Uni-

form Social Credit Code for Legal Persons and Other Organizations]." General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, and National Standardization Management Com-
mittee. 17 September 2015. Online:
http://qyj.saic.gov.cn/zyfb/gszjfb/201612/t20161208_232473.html
97 “Didi Agrees to Share Credit Data With China’s Top Economic Planning Agency.” Yicai Global. 8

March 2018. Online: https://www.yicaiglobal.com/news/didi-chuxing-agrees-share-credit-data-
china’s-development-agency
98 “Shanghai Shi gonggong xinyong xinxi mulu [Shanghai Municipal Public Credit Information Cata-

logue (2015 Edition)].” Shanghai Municipal Credit Investigation Management Office. Online:
http://www.shcredit.gov.cn/images/sj.pdf.




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
this information is also made publicly available, making the website in itself one of
the incentives in the SCS.

The final step in the process is processing and using the stored information in fur-
therance of social management objectives. The development of information technol-
ogy has increasingly provided the storage, communication and computational capa-
bilities not just to collect and share data, but also to process and analyse it to gener-
ate actionable insights. Perhaps the best-known example of this is correlational big
data analysis, which sorts individuals into categories on the basis of probabilistic
computations. Yet this point in time, with the exception of the narrow scope of fi-
nancial credit scoring as discussed below, there seems to be little algorithmic pro-
cessing of data. As far as public documents indicate, anyone’s social credit status will
only be influenced by the history of their own conduct to the extent that it is covered
through the SCS’s remit. Technological analysis is used, however, to make mass in-
formation more manageable, accessible or technologically presentable. For instance,
the Big Data Key Scrutiny function within the blacklist system is intended to auto-
matically flag individuals appearing on multiple lists. Similarly, the credit reports in
the Honest Shanghai app reflect an integration of data from the existing credit data-
bases.

IV. Private social credit systems

Not only the Chinese government has occupied itself with social credit. Some of
China’s private tech businesses have done so as well, spurred by a PBoC initiative to
foster the development of a personal credit rating system akin to the FICO score sys-
tem prevalent in the United States. In early 2015, the PBoC selected eight companies
to begin “preparatory work” (zhunbei gongzuo) for the establishment of formal credit
reporting system, and gave them six months to do so99. Perhaps the best known of
these systems is Sesame Credit, developed by Ant Financial Group, an affiliate of the
E-commerce behemoth Alibaba. Sesame Credit combines elements of a traditional
credit scoring system with components of a loyalty scheme. It calculates a score be-
tween 350 points and 950 points based on data in five major categories: (1) credit his-
tory, or records of past credit repayments; (2) behavioural trends, referring to
someone's conduct when making purchases, processing payment, settling accounts
and managing their finances; (3) ability to honour agreements, meaning having sta-
ble economic revenue and personal assets; (4) personal information, referring to the
amount of verifiable and reliable information about themselves a member provides,
and (5) social relationships, referring the extent to which one interacts with good
friends and behaves in a friendly manner on the platform100. They respectively
amount for 35%, 25%, 20%, 15% and 5% of the score, although the specific scoring
algorithms remain confidential. Also, the platform gives little information on which
specific actions would alter one’s score, and to what extent. While Sesame Credit


99 "Guanyu zuohao geren zhengxin yewu zhunbei gongzuo de tongzhi [Notice concerning Accom-

plishing Preparatory Work for Personal Credit Reporting Business Activities]." 5 January 2015.
Online: http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2015-01/05/content_2800381.htm.
100 Li, Tianxia. "Hulianwang jinrong de dashuju fengkong zhi shu [The Art of Internet Finance Big

Data Risk Management]. Zhihu. 4 January 2017. Online: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/24712959




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
remains an opt-in function in the broader Alibaba platform, this vagueness has
raised concerns about the considerations that might be part of the scoring process,
and to what extent they can inform policy that might one day be taken over by gov-
ernment. Some markers seem to be somewhat arbitrary; for instance, reports suggest
that frequent changes of address might also lower one’s credit score101. Senior corpo-
rate officials at Ant Financial have made vague and sometimes conflicting state-
ments on scoring. Chief Data Scientist Yu Wujie suggested that donating to charity
would raise one’s score, but without stating the extent of donations desired. Tech-
nology director Li Yingyun suggested in a press interview that persons buying nap-
pies would be seen as more trustworthy as someone playing video games for ten
hours per day102. Although Ant later denied this, it had already fuelled foreign con-
cern about Sesame’s alleged invasiveness and propensity for behavioural control.

Outside of its usefulness as a portable credit score, Sesame solved several problems
that Alibaba faced in the development of its e-commerce business. The most im-
portant one of these concerned payment and creditworthiness. China was, at that
time, still a largely cash-based economy, where few individuals held credit cards.
Alibaba’s model as an intermediary for purchasers and sellers required it to be able
to facilitate payment. Without external broad-based providers, Alibaba decided to
set up a mobile payment system of its own, which became known as Alipay103. This,
in turn, required Alibaba to be able to assess customers’ financial creditworthiness.
In the absence of a recorded financial history, they turned towards other potentially
useful proxies. Second, Alibaba’s business model depends on its ability to present
itself as a trusted intermediary brokering between buyers and sellers who do not
know each other. Sesame Credit was seen as a tool that could support this trust-
building process. It is now also used outside the immediate financial context on the
Alibaba platform. On its dating service Baihe, for instance, hopeful singles often post
their Sesame Credit scores in the hope that it will raise their attraction104.

As the adoption and the profile of Sesame Credit has grown, Ant Financial has in-
creasingly expanded external partnerships, leveraging the trust infrastructure they
created to facilitate linkages between consumers and other parties. Individuals with
high Sesame Credit scores, for instance, enjoy expedited procedures when applying
for Singaporean and Schengen visa105, access to fast lanes at airport security106, and a

101 "Ma Yun kaishi gei geren xinyong dafen, kualai kankan ni zai pengyoujuan zhong pai diji [Ma Yun

Begins to Hand Out Personal Credit Scores, Come Quickly to See Where You Rank in Your Group of
Friends]." The Paper. 28 January 2015. Online:
http://www.thepaper.cn/newsDetail_forward_1298828
102 “China 'social credit': Beijing sets up huge system.” BBC. 26 October 2015. Online:

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-34592186.
103 Lee, David Kuo Chuen, and Gin Swee Zhang Jinrui Teo. "Emergence of FinTech and the LASIC

principles." Journal of Financial Perspectives 3.3 (2015): 1.
104 Hawkins, Amy. “Chinese Citizens Want the Government to Rank Them.” Foreign Policy. 24 May

2017. Online: http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/05/24/chinese-citizens-want-the-government-to-rank-
them/
105 “Alitrip Introduces Credit-based Visa Application Service for Qualified Chinese Travelers.” Busi-

nessWire. 3 June 2015. Online:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150603006726/en/Alitrip-Introduces-Credit-based-
Visa-Application-Service-Qualified.




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
reduction or waiver for deposits on a host of products and services, including mobile
phones, hotels and bicycle rentals107. Local governments have also enthusiastically
adopted the deposit waiver approach. Ant Financial itself reported that, in early
2017, 381 cities waived deposits in sectors such as healthcare, social housing and
public services based on their Sesame Credit Score108.

This raises the question to what extent Sesame collaborates with government, par-
ticularly on the governmental credit system. Popular news media have regularly
conflated the two. However, a the time of writing, there is no hard evidence for this
claim. Sesame’s General Manager, Hu Tao, wrote a letter to the Financial Times ar-
guing the company anonymised and encrypted all user data before analysis, gave
users ample control over the extent to which their information was shared. Hu de-
nied allegations both that Sesame was contracted to execute the governmental social
credit system, and that it shared user data and scores with the government without
users’ prior consent109. At the same time, Alibaba is one of the private actors collabo-
rating with the implementation of the blacklist scheme, disabling luxury purchases
on its Taobao and Tmall platforms for designated individuals110. Moreover, privacy
seems to become an increasing concern for users. In early 2018, Alipay introduced an
annual reporting feature where users, by default, gave permission to access their
Sesame scores. This led to an outcry on social media, a rapid reversal by Alipay, and
a strongly worded apology111.

From the point of view of the PBoC, which sought to develop the credit scoring in-
dustry, systems developed by Alibaba and the other businesses involved were not
successful. In fact, Tencent’s version of a credit system was ordered to shut down a
day after it went into wider application112. A first major problem the bank identified
in its pursuit of both expanded domestic consumption and better financial risk con-
trol was that the eight businesses had developed their credit arms to support their
core commercial, financial and insurance businesses, leading to conflicts of inter-
est113. There were also concerns about the accuracy about some of the data generated
by the private scoring systems, often due to the fact that they could only capture

106 “China: When big data meets big brother.” Financial Times. 19 January 2016. Online:

https://www.ft.com/content/b5b13a5e-b847-11e5-b151-8e15c9a029fb
107 “Ant Financial Pushes Sesame Credit In New Tie-Ups.” Seeking Alpha. 10 May 2017. Online:

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4071862-ant-financial-pushes-sesame-credit-new-tie-ups?page=2
108"Quanguo chengshi xinyong mianya fuwu baogao [National Report on Urban Credit Deposit-

Waiving Services]." Ant Financial. 23 March 2017. Online:
https://www.antfin.com/newsDetail.html?id=590aa809e2dac846a0361260
109 “Zhima Credit does not share user scores or data”. Financial Times. 15 November 2017. Online:

https://www.ft.com/content/ec4a2a46-c577-11e7-a1d2-6786f39ef675
110 Ahmed, 2017, n. 66.
111 “After Privacy Concerns, Zhima Credit Admits It Was ‘Stupid’”. Sixth Tone. 4 January 2018. Online:

http://www.sixthtone.com/news/1001503/after-privacy-concerns%2C-zhima-credit-admits-it-was-
stupid
112 “Tencent Pulls Credit Scoring Service, Source Says.” Caixin Global. 1 February 2018.

https://www.caixinglobal.com/2018-02-01/tencent-pulls-credit-scoring-service-source-says-
101206268.html
113 “No more loan rangers? Beijing's waning support for private credit scores.” Reuters. 4 July 2017.

Online: https://www.reuters.com/article/ant-financial-credit/no-more-loan-rangers-beijings-
waning-support-for-private-credit-scores-idUSL3N1JO05W




                   Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
credit data from their own customer bases and business activities. Consequently, the
PBoC decided not to extend the eight licences. A solution was found when the eight
companies, together with the National Internet Finance Association (NIFA), jointly
established a united credit scoring bureau, named Baihang. NIFA is a sectoral inter-
mediary organization established in 2015, which falls under the administrative lead-
ership of the PBoC114. As such, and given NIFA holds a 36% stake in Baihang, PBoC
control over tech-based scoring initiatives remains assured.

Conclusion

As it stands today, it is mistaken to conceive the Social Credit System as a single, in-
tegrated entity. Instead, the term covers an entire ecology of fragmented initiatives
that share a basic set of objectives, operational frameworks and policy language.
From the government’s perspective, the two prime objectives are improving legal
and regulatory compliance, which is the major purpose of the punishment systems,
and developing the financial services industry. For the private sector, this created
opportunities to develop their own scoring systems, which combine the functions of
user ratings on platforms and a loyalty scheme. While the concept of social credit
originated as a means to remedy a perceived lack of trust in the marketplace, its
purposes now also include combating benefit fraud, incentivising domestic con-
sumption and the development of new economic activities as part of a broader strat-
egy to rebalance China’s economic development process, lubricating the cogs of con-
sumer commerce by inducing individuals, particularly the unbanked and un-
derbanked into a system where they can become trusted traders through verification
and assessment by a reliable third party, harmonising social conduct, and perhaps
most importantly, devising new ways to discipline governmental actors. It may thus
be one example of what Schlaeger calls the “battering ram”, the use of information
technologies to knock down the protective walls subordinate government depart-
ments have erected to protect them from the scrutiny of their administrative superi-
ors. At the same time, for the private businesses operating their own credit system, it
has become a useful tool to reward loyal customers and render their platforms more
attractive than those of competitors.

The SCS blurs the line between state and non-state actors. On the one hand, the
blacklist mechanisms in the SCS amplify traditional law enforcement tools, vesting
the norms to be enforced through the system in existing laws and regulations. With
regard to financial scoring, however, the cash-based nature of China’s economy
meant developing a credit economy required the use of non-financial proxy catego-
ries to substitute for a well-measured creditworthiness record. In view of the con-
flicting statements by private businesses about their data collection and processing
practices, the question of the extent to which they take the enforcement of social
norms into consideration in this process is an open one, pending future research.
However, the notion of private enforcement of social norms through credit reports
itself is a promising topic for comparative research. Early forms of credit reporting in
the United States, such as the progenitors of today’s Equifax, were explicit about
their goal to impose “discipline” on citizens. In this pursuit, credit investigators

114 “About NIFA.” NIFA. Online: http://www.nifa.org.cn/nifaen/2955866/2955892/index.html




                 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
would include elements ranging from the stability of a subject’s marriage, their col-
lege grades, racial and gender prejudices, and the McCarthyite biases of the 1950s115.
Not until the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970s would rights to personal data, limi-
tations to information sharing and anti-discrimination requirements become part of
federal law. The extent to which “data justice” exists in today’s economy remains a
question worth asking116.

The broader question remains whether the SCS is, or has the potential to become, the
Orwellian nightmare many fear it to be: an omniscient machine hoovering up the
massive amounts of data individuals generate as they plod through their lives, pro-
cessing it to deliver a quantified score that creates an ideological and consumerist
straightjacket for every Chinese citizen. Undoubtedly, Party ideology still funda-
mentally believes in social engineering on the basis of system science, on the mallea-
bility and transformability of the individual, and a rather maximalist approach to
social intervention that sees this reading of the SCS as an attractive vision. Not only
the SCS plan, but also national big data and artificial intelligence strategies explicitly
intend the expanded use of automated, data-based systems for social control. Lead-
ing Party media call for the use of these systems for informing policymaking, auto-
mating internal governmental discipline, forecasting economic and social trends,
and creating a situation in which ““government prepares the stage, society sings the
harmony117”. The underlying creation of information technologies that ensure more
effective ways of “seeing like a state”118 indicates a commitment towards radical
transparency: information on subjects’ trustworthiness is to be made publicly availa-
ble, and in some circumstances even actively broadcast. Similarly, information about
the conduct of bureaucratic departments and, in some cases, their officials, as well as
the compliance record of businesses, is to be made available.

Nevertheless, at present, the SCS remains a rather crude tool for social sorting. To a
certain degree, this is perhaps due to the fact that the Chinese government does not
see the need to control the conduct of its citizens through surreptitious or invisible
means. Social control techniques prevalent in Western liberal democracies, such as
gamification or nudging, are supposed to be largely unnoticeable: individuals are
steered through the exploitation of inherent biases and unconscious decision-making
strategies. The SCS on the other hand does not hide its paternalism under a bushel: it
is part of an openly declared and widely propagated effort to instill civic virtue, and
conjoined with propaganda campaigns to raise individuals’ consciousness about
their actions. More specifically, in order to assess whether and how the “Orwellian”

115 “Equifax Isn’t A Data Problem. It’s A Political Problem.” Huffington Post. 13 September 2017.

Online: https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/equifax-credit-bureaus-
reform_us_59b95627e4b0edff97187e7d
116 Taylor, Linnet. "What is data justice? The case for connecting digital rights and freedoms global-

ly." Big Data & Society 4.2 (2017): 2053951717736335.
117 Chen, Gang. "Yunyong da shuju siwei he shouduan tisheng zhengfu zhili nengli [Use Big Data

Thinking and Methods to Enhance the Government’s Governing Capacity]." Qiushi. 12 July 2016.
Online: https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2016/07/12/use-big-data-thinking-and-
methods-to-enhance-the-governments-governing-capacity/.
118 Scott, James C. Seeing like a state: How certain schemes to improve the human condition have failed. Yale

University Press, 1998.




                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
transformation is actually taking place, shifts five dimensions will be useful in guid-
ing future research. The first dimension concerns whether SCS data originates from
government or private sources. At the present time, nearly all data on which deci-
sions in the punishment systems are generated by government departments and
recognized regulatory authorities. The information that informs financial credit scor-
ing does also originate from the private sector, but is currently only used within this
quite narrow scope. The second dimension entails the nature of the rating system
itself; whether it is binary or a more sophisticated ranking mechanism. The SCS pun-
ishment systems currently are clearly binary: one is either on or off the blacklist. The
major central planning documents do not mention quantified scoring. In contrast,
Sesame Credit, as well as the abortive Suining experiment and the ongoing Rong-
cheng trial, are examples of systems with a more fine-grained spectrum of outcomes
based on a quantified assessment. A third dimension consists of the nature of deci-
sion-making processes, whether judgments and scores are predominantly based on
human assessments, programmed algorithms or self-changing deep learning appli-
cations over which humans have no full control. This is of particular importance
when the SCS is to be used as a tool for normative control: if individuals are to com-
ply with the rules and norms the SCS is built to support, these expectations should
be transparent. Simply put, individuals need to know the benchmarks for optimiz-
ing their behavior. If automated decision systems do not enable this transparency,
their role in social control may thus be limited. A fourth dimension is the temporal
orientation of judgments. At present, both the public and private credit scoring sys-
tems are past-oriented: they evaluate and rank individuals’ previous conduct and
append consequences in the present. A future-oriented system would act in a proba-
bilistic manner, delineating scopes for actions based on individuals’ expected or like-
ly conduct in the future. A fifth, connected dimension is whether decisions are made
on an individual or collective basis. At present, the SCS only takes into account indi-
vidual conduct, there is no statistical assessment on where this conduct falls in the
distribution of the overall population. It may be the case that the private and finan-
cial credit systems do take into account how individuals compare to broader classes,
but again, the coverage of these systems is comparatively narrow.

Future research on these developments also needs into account potential obstacles.
The Party-State also faces no meaningful legal constraints against its actions per se,.
However, while Chinese government can do anything, it can’t do everything. In par-
ticular, there are three categories of challenges that must be negotiated. The first one
is external rejection. While it is not always easy for Chinese citizens to oppose par-
ticular policies, there is no shortage of examples where central and local government
reconsidered or reversed decisions after popular protest. Within the ambit of the SCS
itself, the response to the abortive Suining trial demonstrates the difficulty of im-
plementing a policy that is largely rejected by the citizenry. More recently, the gov-
ernment’s response to increasing concerns about user privacy on the dominant
online platforms Tencent and Alibaba, by shutting down the former’s social credit
trial and reprimanding the latter, further underscores the need to ensure citizens are,
at least for the most part, on board with the programme. The second one is conflict
between the various bureaucracies and actors that constitute the SCS. These tensions
can be vertical, where the SCS is partly intended to be a tool to instil discipline over
and reduce the often-abused discretion of the very same local governments on which




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
the central system relies for information gathering, implementation and enforce-
ment. The difficulties in integrating the various departmental punishment schemes
further indicate the difficulty of coordinating large, cross-bureaucratic programmes
in the Chinese context. The relationship between public and private actors is some-
times uneasy as well: government departments often consider corporate data gather-
ing processes with a mixture of envy and concern. The third category concerns ena-
bling the system to work at a technical level. First, the quality of data going into the
system itself needs to be guaranteed, otherwise, the reliability of any of its outcomes
is inevitably compromised. A particular problem will arise when individuals try to
game the system by maximizing particular measured proxies. Compatibility and in-
teroperability needs to be ensured between data storage formats and systems of cen-
tral and local, public and private actors. Subsequently, the data needs to be pro-
cessed and interpreted in a way that ensures the construction of meaning from the
data results in useful information and legitimate decisions. These three categories of
constraints, external dissent, internal fragmentation, and difficulties in constructing
underlying governmental architectures are, of course, not new to any observer of
Chinese law and governance. They constitute some of the most fundamental pathol-
ogies at the heart of the Chinese polity. To a considerable degree, the SCS is based on
the techno-optimist belief that automation might enable the state to transcend them.
Yet ironically, they may well infect these very efforts too.

Lastly, future analysis of the SCS would do well to study its relationship with other
social management projects. In functional terms, the SCS is currently relatively lim-
ited to market supervision and, to a certain degree, internal oversight. It is housed
within a section of the bureaucracy that is less involved with politically salient and
sensitive issues, and does not seem to include questions of crime, dissent and sub-
version. Rather, these are the province of a domestic security apparatus run entirely
within the Ministry of Public Security and its associated entities. Here, we do find a
large bureaucracy aimed at forecasting trends and informing pre-emptive decision-
making, leveraging big data approaches as part of a ceaselessly intensifying risk-
management and stabilization preservation effort. In other words, the SCS should
not be understood as a comprehensive governance tool, but as only one technology-
empowered means of governance among many. Sometimes, these may learn from or
build on each other, but analysis must also identify where they are distinct. Ideas,
objectives, approaches, means and strategies for social control in China may emerge
from a unified political context, but the complexities of organization and other inter-
vening variables fragment them as much as they do the rest of China’s political-legal
landscape.




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
Table 1: Institutional membership list of the Interministerial Joint Conference for
the Construction of the SCS (2007)
State Council General Office
National Development and Reform Commission
National Leading Group for the Rectification and Standardization of the Market
Economy Order
Ministry of Commerce
People’s Bank of China
General Administration of Customs
General Administration of Taxation
State Administration of Industry and Commerce
General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
State Council Legal Affairs Office
Banking Regulatory Commission
Securities Regulatory Commission
Insurance Regulatory Commission
State Administration of Foreign Exchange
State Council Information Office

Source: 国务院办公厅关于建立国务院社会信用体系建设部际联席会议制度的通知, 18
April 2007. http://www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2007/content_632090.htm

Table 2: Institutional membership list of the Interministerial Joint Conference for
the Construction of the SCS (2012)
National Development and Reform Commission
People’s Bank of China
Central Discipline Inspection Committee
Central Propaganda Department
Central Politico-Legal Committee
Central Leading Group for the Construction of a Spiritual Civilization
Ministry of Supervision
Ministry of Education
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
Ministry of Public Security
Ministry of Civil Affairs
Ministry of Justice
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security
Ministry of Environmental Protection
Ministry of Housing and Urban Construction
Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Commerce
Ministry of Culture
Ministry of Health
General Administration of Customs
General Administration of Taxation




               Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
State Administration of Industry and Commerce
State Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
State Intellectual Property Office
National Bureau of Corruption Prevention
State Council Legal Affairs Office
Banking Regulatory Commission
Securities Regulatory Commission
Insurance Regulatory Commission
State Administration of Civil Service
State Food and Drug Administration
State Administration of Foreign Exchange
Supreme People’s Court
Supreme People’s Procuratorate

Source: 国务院关于同意调整社会信用体系建设部际联席会议职责和成员单位的批复,
17 July 2012, http://www.pkulaw.cn/fulltext_form.aspx?db=chl&gid=179820

Table 3: Score table for the Suining Mass Credit System

Commercial services credit information (150 points)
Bank loans (50 points).
Credit card non-repayment (50 points).
Contract performance (30 points).
Peer-to-peer loans (20 points)119.

Social services credit information (120 points)
Tax arrears or evasion (50 points).
Utility fee payments (35 points).
Social security payments

Social management credit information (530 points)
City management (25 points).
Producing or selling fake goods (35 points).
Pyramid selling, swindling (35 points).
Birth planning (35 points).
Heretical activities (50 points).
Household virtue (50 points)120.
Social order (50 points)121
Property theft (50 points).
Traffic violations (50 points).
Offering and taking bribes (50 points).
False accusations and slander (100 points).
Special Social Credit information

119 Both non-repayment and illegal lending were punished.
120 This includes domestic violence and failure to take care of the elderly or children.
121 This refers to “encircling, stalking or harassing Party and government bodies, enterprises or con-

struction sites”. Exposure by news media was sufficient for points deduction.




                    Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
Civil litigation (50 points).
Administrative punishment (50 points).
Criminal punishment (100 points).

Table 4: 2016 Obligations for Party and State Bodies in the Joint Punishment Sys-
tem122

(1) Reference for examination and approval when establishing securities companies,
fund management companies and futures companies, and for registration as manag-
er in private equity investment funds; restriction from purchasing listed companies
(2) Strict examination and verification when issuing bonds in the interbank market
(3) Restriction from establishing financial guarantee companies; restriction from act-
ing as CEO, supervisory board member of senior manager in financial guarantee
companies or financial organs
(4) Assistance in due diligence for government procurement programme infor-
mation; restriction from participation in government procurement in activities
(5) Restriction from the establishment of insurance companies, restriction from the
purchase insurance products with a cash value by paying high insurance premiums
(6) Reference for cautious consultation when examining and approving the estab-
lishment of commercial banks or branches, representative offices as well as buying
shares in or purchasing commercial banks
(7) Suspension from share-based incentive plans in domestic State-owned or con-
trolled enterprises, or termination of entitlement as a participant in share-holding
inventive schemes
(8) Cautious reference when checking and managing foreign exchange quota
(9) Acetous reference when awarding credit authorization to financial bodies
(10) Restriction from subsidies and social security payments support
(11) Reference when assessing preferential policies
(12) Strengthening daily supervision, management and inspection
(13) Restriction from acting as statutory representative, CEO or supervisory board
member in State-owned enterprises
(14) Restriction from registry as the statutory representative of an undertaking work
unit
(15) Open publication through the "Credit China" website and the enterprise credit
information publication system
(16) Open publication through major news web sites.
(17) Restriction from recruitment as civil servant or staff in undertaking work units.
(18) Prohibition from recognition as civilized work unit or model of virtue
(19) Restriction from flying on aircraft, soft sleepers on trains and other such con-
sumption acts not necessary for life or work
(20) Restriction from staying in high star-rated hotels and guesthouses; restriction
from consumption in nightclubs and golf courses
(21) Restriction from purchasing immovable property and State-owned property


122 "Guanyu dui shixin bei zhixingren shishi lianhe chengjie de hezuo beiwanglu. [Memorandum of

Understanding on Cooperation concerning Implementing Joint Punishment against Untrustworthy
Persons Subject to Enforcement]." National Development and Reform Commission. 28 January 2016.
Online: http://credit.mot.gov.cn/zhengcefagui/guojia/201607/t20160706_2058154.html




                  Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
(22) Restriction from tourism and vacationing to a certain degree
(23) Restriction from entering sons and daughters in high fee-paying private schools
(24) Inquiry into identity, passport and vehicle ownership information; assisting
search for untrustworthy persons subject to enforcement; restriction from leaving
borders; assisting with the sealing and confiscation of vehicles.
(25) Restriction from using State-owned forest land, restriction from applying for fo-
cus forestry projects, restriction from examination and approval for State-owned
grassland usage rights, restriction from applying for focus grassland protection pro-
jects.
(26) Inquiry into customs verification status of untrustworthy persons subject to en-
forcement; restriction from becoming a customs-verified enterprise; implementing
strict supervision and management over imported and exported goods.
(27) Inquiry into examination and approval for production safety permits; restriction
from engaging in trading of medicine, foodstuffs, etc.; restriction from acting as
main responsible person, CEO, supervisory board member, or high level manager in
production and trading businesses.
(28) Inquiry into registration information for fishing vessels
(29) Inquiry into registration information for passenger and goods vehicles
(30) Inquiry into registration information of lawyers; restriction from participation in
selections and award schemes
(31) Inquiry into marital registration information
(32) Assisting in the conviction and punishment for refusing to perform judgments
or rulings.
`




                Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175792
