     YALE LAW SCHOOL




         Public Law & Legal Theory
           Research Paper Series
                 Research Paper No. 64


   The Two Western Cultures of Privacy:
         Dignity versus Liberty


                         by

               James Q. Whitman




This paper can be downloaded without charge from the
 Social Science Research Network Paper Collection at
       http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=476041
                                                    I

        In every corner of the western world, writers proclaim “privacy” as a supremely

important human good, as a value somehow at the core of what makes life worth living.

Without our privacy, we lose “our very integrity as persons,” Charles Fried declared

thirty years ago. 1 Many others have agreed since that privacy is somehow fundamental to

our “personhood.”2 It is a commonplace, moreover, that our privacy is peculiarly

menaced by the evolution of modern society, with its burgeoning technologies of

surveillance and inquiry. Commentators paint this menace in very dark colors: Invasions

of our privacy are said to portend a society of “horror,”3 to “injure [us] in [our] very

humanity,”4 or even to threaten “totalitarianism,”5 and the establishment of law

protecting privacy is accordingly declared to be a universal obligation of civilized

society. It is the rare privacy advocate who resists citing Orwell when describing these

dangers.

        At the same time, honest advocates of “privacy” protections are forced to admit

that the concept of “privacy” is embarrassingly difficult to define. 6 “Nobody,” writes

Judith Jarvis Thomson dryly, “seems to have any very clear idea what it is.”7 Not every


1
   Fried, Privacy, in Ferdinand David Schoeman, Philosophical Dimensions of Privacy: An Anthology
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984), 205.
2
  See especially Jeffrey H. Reiman, Privacy, Intimacy and Personhood, in Schoeman, ed., Philosophical
Dimensions of Privacy, 300-316. For more recent examples of this widespread idea, e.g. Hugh Miller, III,
DNA Blueprints, Personhood, and Genetic Privacy, 8 Health Matrix 179 (1998); Jonathan Kahn, Privacy
as a Legal Principle of Identity Maintenance, 33 Seton Hall L. Rev. 371 (2003). There are of course other
approaches, and in particular more skeptical ones, such as those offered by some feminists. See e.g. Sally
F. Goldfarb, Violence Against Women and the Persistence of Privacy, 61 Ohio St. L. J. 1 (2000).
3
   Edward J. Eberle, The Right To Information Self-Determination, 2001 Utah L. Rev. 965, 995.
4
   Fried, Privacy, 202.
5
  Jed Rubenfeld, The Right of Privacy, 102 Harv. L. Rev. 737 (1989).
6
   E.g. Robert Post, Three Concepts of Privacy, 89 Geo. L. J., 2087 (2000); Willam M. Beaney, The Right to
Privacy and American Law, 31 L. & Contemp. Probs. 253, 255 (1966).
7
   Thomson, The Right to Privacy, in Schoeman, ed., Philosophical Dimensions of Privacy, 272.
author is as skeptical as Thomson, but many of them feel obliged to concede that

“privacy,” fundamentally important though it may be, is an unusually slippery concept.

In particular, the sense of what must be kept “priva te,” of what must be hidden before the

eyes of others, seems to differ strangely from society to society. This is a point that is

frequently made by citing the literature of ethnography, which tells us that there are some

societies in which people cheerfully defecate in full view of others, and at least a few in

which the same is true of having sex. 8 But the same point can be made by citing a large

historical literature, which shows how remarkably ideas of privacy have shifted and

mutated over time. 9 Anyone who wants a vivid example can visit the ruins of Ephesus,

where the modern tourist can set himself down on one of numerous ancient toilet seats, in

a public hall where well- to-do Ephesians gathered to commune with each other, two

thousand years ago, as they collectively emptied their bowels. 10

         If “privacy” is a universal human need, which gives rise to a fundamental human

right, why does it take such disconcertingly diverse forms? This is a hard problem for

privacy advocates who want to talk about the values of “personhood,” harder than they

typically acknowledge. It is a hard problem because of the way they usually try to make


8
  Alan Westin, The Origins of Modern Claims to Privacy, in Schoeman ed., Philosophical Dimensions of
Privacy, 62-63; Jean Cohen, Regulating Intimacy: A New Legal Paradigm (Princeton: Princeton U. P.,
2002), 56. For unconvincing doubts about the existence of public defecation, see Barrington Moore,
Privacy: Studies in Social and Cultural History (Armonk, N.Y.: Sharpe, 1984), 65.
9
  For this commonplace, see André Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée et droit à l’image (Paris: Litec, 1999), 2
(citing Jean-Claude Bologne, Histoire de la Pudeur (Paris : Orban, 1986) (public defecation by early-
modern Kings of France) ; Bernard Beignier, La vie privée, in Rémy Cabrillac, Marie -Anne Frison-Roche
and Theirry Revet, Libertés et droits fondamentaux, 5th ed. (Paris : Dalloz, 1999), para. 185 (nude bathing
in Seine and other early modern examples). These historical claims too have stimulated some skepticism,
notably in the attack on Elias of Hans-Peter Duerr, Der Mythos vom Zivilisationsprozess, 5 vols. (Frankfurt
a.M.: Suhrkamp, 1988-2002).
10
   For communal defecation in Greco-Roman antiquity, governed by some complex social and even legal
rules, see Richard Neudecker, Die Pracht der Latrine. Zum Wandel öffentlicher Bedüfnisanstalten in der
kaiserzeitlichen Stadt (München: Pfeil, 1994), 24-39, and for Ephesus in particular, with emphasis on the
posh setting, id. 126-131. For a tourist guide: Peter Scherrer, ed., Ephesos. Der neue Führer (Wien:
Österreiches Archäologisches Institut, 1995), 122.


                                                                                                          1
their case: Overwhelmingly, privacy advocates rely on what moral philosophers call

“intuitionist” arguments. 11 In their crude form, these sorts of arguments suppose that

human beings have a direct, intuitive grasp of right and wrong, an intuitive grasp that can

guide us in our ordinary ethical decision- making. Privacy advocates evidently suppose

the same thing. Thus the typical privacy article rests its case precisely on an appeal to its

reader’s intuitions and anxieties about the evils of privacy violations. Imagine invasions

of your privacy, the argument runs. Do they not seem like violations of your very

personhood? Since violations of privacy seem intuitively horrible to everybody, the

argument continues, safeguarding privacy must be a legal imperative, just as

safeguarding property or contract is a legal imperative. Indeed, privacy matters so much

to us that law protecting it must be a basic requirement of human rights.

        This kind of argument can certainly make a powerful impression on first reading,

since it is true that we can all imagine some violation of our privacy that seems very

horrible. This is especially so when the writings in question are composed by scholars

with a real literary gift, like Fried. 12 Nevertheless, now matter how anxiety-inducing it

may be to read these authors, their arguments only carry real weight if it is true that the

intuitions they evoke are shared by all human beings. Yet all the evidence seems to

suggest that human intuitions and anxieties about privacy differ. We do not need to refer

to the practices of exotic ancient or modern cultures to demonstrate as much: It is true

even as between the familiar societies of the modern west. In fact, we are in the midst of

significant privacy conflicts between the United States and the countries of western



11
   Classically offered by W. D. Ross, The Right and the Good, Philip Stratton-Lake, ed. (Oxford:
Clarendon, 2002) (orig. 1930).
12
   Above note


                                                                                                   2
Europe—conflicts that reflect unmistakable differences in sensibilities about what ought

to be kept “private.”

         To the Europeans, indeed, it often seems obvious that Americans do not

understand the imperative demands of “privacy” at all. The Monica Lewinsky

investigation, in particular, with its numerous and lewd disclosures, led many Europeans

to that conclusion. 13 But the Lewinsky business is not the only example: There are

plenty of other aspects of American life that seem to Europeans to prove the same thing.

Let me offer a variety of examples from France and Germany, two countries that have

been my focus in recent research, and that will be my focus in this essay as well. Some

of things that bother French and German observers involve what Americans will think of

as trivialities of everyday behavior. For example, visitors from both countries are taken

aback by the ill-bred way in which Americans talk about themselves: As a French article

warns visitors to the U.S., America is a place where strangers suddenly share information

with you about their “private activities” in a way that is “difficult to imagine” for

northern Europeans or Asians. 14 Americans have a particularly embarrassing habit,

continental Europeans believe, of talking about salaries. It is “normal in America,” an

internet site informs German tourists, for your host at dinner to ask “not just how much

you earn, but even what your net worth is”15 —topics ordinarily quite off- limits under the


13
   E.g. Le recours à l'intimité est de règle aux Etats-Unis, Le Monde, 22 Avril 2002 ; Jacques Lassaussois,
Procès Clinton : Où va la Justice Américaine ?, Gazette du Palais, 18/19 March 1998 (complaint against
Clinton involves « la vie privée »).
14
   Gilles Asselin, La Vie en Amérique: “Cette scène si typiquement américaine où des ‘étrangers’
(strangers) s’assemblent pour quelques instants et échangent rapidement des informations concernant leurs
activités privées est difficile à imaginer en Asie ou dans bien d’autres pays d’Europe non
méditerranéenne. » ” France-Amérique 1389 (January 23, 1999). Available at:
http://www.sococo.com/fram.html.
15
   http://freenet.de/freenet/reisen/ratgeber/unterwegs/knigge/usa.02.html . Sim http://www.mdr.de/hier-ab-
vier/rat_und_tat/3617.html : “Mit dem Thema Geld hingegen wird locker umgegangen. Wundern Sie sich daher
nicht, wenn man Sie nach Ihrem Einkommen fragt.” See also Florence le Bras, Le Guide du Savoir Vivre (n.p.:



                                                                                                              3
rules of European etiquette. 16 Talking about salaries is not quite like defecating in public,

but it can seem very offputting to many Europeans nevertheless.

         But it is not just a matter of the boorish American lack of privacy etiquette. It is

also a matter of American law. Continental law is avidly protective of many kinds of

“privacy,” in many realms of life, whether the issue is consumer data, 17 credit reporting, 18

workplace emails, 19 workplace privacy more broadly, 20 discovery in civil litigation, 21 the

dissemination of nude images on the internet, 22 or shielding criminal offenders from

public exposure. 23 To people accustomed to the continental way of doing things,

American law seems to tolerate relentless and brutal violations of privacy in all these

areas of law. I have seen Europeans grow visibly angry, for example, when they learn

about routine American practices like credit reporting. How, they ask, can merchants be

permitted access to the entire credit history of customers who have never defaulted on

their debts? Is it not obvious that this a violation of privacy and personhood, which must

be prohibited by law?

         These are clashes in attitude that go well beyond the occasional social

misunderstanding. In fact, they have provoked some tense and costly European-

American legal and trade battles over the last decade and a half. Thus the European

Union and the United States slid into a major trade conflict over the protection of


Marabout, 1999), 301: in America “[n]e vous choquez pas si l’on vous demande le montant de vos revenus à la
première rencontre.”
16
   E.g. Sabine Denuelle, Le Savoir-vivre: Guide des Règles et des usages d’aujourd’hui (Paris: Larousse,
1999), 164 ; Le Bras, Le Guide du Savoir-Vivre, 66.
17
   See below.
18
   See below.
19
   O’Connor v. Ortega 480 U.S. 709 (1987); Smyth v. Pillsbury Co., 914 F.Supp. 97 (E.D. Pa. 1996);
Rosen, The Unwanted Gaze (New York: Random House, 2000), 66-79.
20
   See below.
21
   See below.
22
   See below.
23
   See below.


                                                                                                              4
consumer data in the 1990s, only problematically resolved by a 2000 “safe harbor”

agreement. 24 Europeans still issue constant complaints that Americans do not accept the

importance of protecting consumer privacy. 25 Those tensions have only grown in the

aftermath of September 11. 26 Something similar has happened with regard to discovery

in civil procedure: American law allows parties to rummage around in each others’

records in a way that seems obnoxious and manifestly unacceptable to Europeans. The

result, in recent decades, has been a seething little war over discovery. 27 The circulation

of the nude photos of celebrities on the internet has produced another such conflict, with

Europeans acting alone to penalize internet service providers. 28

        For many Europeans, indeed, a visit to America can be an experience something

like a visit to the latrines of Ephesus. Correspondingly, it has become common for

Europeans to maintain that they respect a “fundamental right to privacy” that is either

weak or wholly absent in the “cultural context” of the United States. 29 Here Europeans


24
   At stake was Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe of 24 October
1995. For further discussion, see Symposium: Data Protection Law and the European Union’s Directive:
The Challenge for the United States, 80 Iowa L.Rev. 431 (1995). For documents on the Safe Harbor
Agreement, see Solove and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 743-754. The Safe Harbor Principles
appear in the Official Journal of the European Communities, C 121 24 April 2001.
25
   E.g. David Scheer, Europe’s New High-Tech Role: Playing Privacy Cop to the World, Wall Street
Journal, Oct. 10, 2003, p. A1; Adam Clymer, Privacy Concerns: Canadian and Dutch Officials Warn of
Security’s Side Effects, NYT, February 28, 2003, p. A14; Steven R. Salbu, The European Union Data
Privacy Directive and International Relations, 35 Vand. J. Transnatl. L. 655, 684 (2002). Cited in Solove
and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 755.
26
   E.g. Scheer, Europe’s New High-Tech Role: Playing Privacy Cop to the World, Wall Street Journal, Oct.
10, 2003, p. A1; Peter Gola, Die Entwicklung des Datenschutzrechts in den Jahren 2001/2002, Neue
Juristische Wochenschrift 2002, 2431-2432.
27
   Christoph Paulus, Discovery, Deutsches Recht und das Haager Beweisüberkommen, Zetischrift für
Zivilprozess 104 (1991), 397ff. Abbo Junker, Der Justizkonflikt mit den USA, Betriebs-Berater 26 (1987):
1752-1754; David Gerber, International Discovery after Aerospatiale: The Quest for an Analytical
Framework, 82 A.J.I.L. 521 (1988).
28
   See below.
29
   Martine Bourrie -Quenillet and Florence Rodhain, L’Utilisation de la messagerie electronique dans
l’entreprise. Aspects juridiques et managériaux en France et aux Etats-Unis, La Semaine Juridique no. 2,
January 9, 2002, text between nn. 14 and 15 (on lexis). For a German example, e.g. Jürgen von Gerlach,
Der Schutz der Privatsphäre von Personen des öffentlichen Lebens in rechtsvergleichender Sicht,
Juristenzeitung 15/16 (1998), 753. For the European sense that the new Charter of Fundamental Rights sets


                                                                                                       5
point with pride to Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights, which

protects “the right to respect for private and family life,”30 and to the European Union’s

new Charter of Fundamental Rights, which demonstratively features articles on both

“Respect for Private and Family Life” and “Protection of Personal Data.”31 By the

standards of those great documents, American privacy law seems, from the European

point of view, simply to have “failed.”32

        But it is not just that Europeans resent and distrust the American approach to

privacy: The reverse is also true. Anyone who has lived in the United States knows that

Americans can be just as obsessively attached to their “privacy” as Europeans, sometimes

defending it by resort to firearms. As for American law: It too is obsessed with privacy.

Indeed, some of the most violently controversial American social issues are conceived of

as “privacy” matters. This has been true of abortion for thirty years. With the decision in

Lawrence v. Texas it is now true of homosexuality as well. 33 It is simply false to say that

privacy doesn’t matter to Americans.

        In fact, let us make no mistake about it: When it comes to “privacy,” there are

plenty of European practices that seem intuitively objectionable to Americans. Some of

these have to do with seemingly minor aspects of the anthropology of everyday life, most

especially involving nudity. If the Europeans are puzzled by the ill-bred way in which



Europe apart from the USA, see Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, November 17, 2002 “Long live the Constitution
(Subject to Change).”
30
   ECHR Art. 8. For pride, and bemusement at English differences, see e.g. Chrisje Brants, The State and
the Nation’s Bedrooms; The Fundamental Right of Sexual Autonomy, in Peter Alldridge and Chrisje
Brants,m Personal Autonomy, the Private Sphere and the Criminal Law (Oxford: Hart, 2001), 117. See
also Convention on Data Protection (1980); and Art. 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
(1948).
31
   Arts. 7 and 8.
32
   Se David A. Anderson, The Failure of American Privacy Law, in B. Markesinis, ed., Protecting Privacy
(Oxford: Oxford U. Press, 1999).
33
   2003 WL 21467086 (2003).


                                                                                                           6
Americans casually talk about themselves, Americans are puzzled by the ill-bred way in

which Europeans casually take off their clothes. Phenomena like public nudity in the

parks of German cities are particularly baffling to Americans, but so are phenomena like

the presence of female attendants in men’s washrooms. It is genital nudity that

Americans find most bizarre: One’s genitalia are “privates” in the full sense of the word

in America, and one does not ordinarily expose them in public, and certainly not before

the opposite sex. But even breasts are supposed to be kept covered in the United States—

as the occasional female European tourist has discovered, when arrested (or even jailed!)

for sunbathing topless on an American beach. (“Those Americans are Out of their

Minds!,” howls a headline from a Swiss tabloid reporting one such incident from

Florida 34 ). Even American advertising, which doesn’t stop at much, doesn’t show bare

breasts.

           Public nudity may seem little more than a curiosity (though we shall see that it

raises revealing problems in the European law of privacy). But here again, it is not just a

matter of norms of everyday behavior. It’s a matter of law. There are numerous aspects

of European law that can seem not only ridiculous, but somewhat shocking to Americans.

For example, continental governments assert the authority to decide what names parents

will be permitted to give their children—a practice affirmed by the European Court of

Human Rights as recently as 1996. 35 This is an application of state power that Americans

will view with complete astonishment, as a manifest violation of proper norms of the

protection of privacy and personhood. How can the state tell you what you are allowed

to call your baby? Nor does it end there: In Germany everybody must be formally

34
   Die spinnen, die Amerikaner! Blutter Busen. Schweizerinnen Verhaftet! Blick Online, Homepage,
05.04.2000.
35
   See below,


                                                                                                   7
registered with the police at all times. 36 In both Germany and France inspectors have the

power to arrive at your door to investigate whether you have an unlicensed television. 37

Evidence that Americans would regard as illegally seized is routinely considered in

continental adjudication. 38 In France and Germany, according to a recent study,

telephones are tapped at ten to thirty times the rate they are tapped in the U.S.—and in

the Netherlands and Italy a hundred and thirty to a hundred and fifty times the rate. 39 All

of this will make many an American snigger at the claim that Europeans have a superior

grasp of privacy. What kind of “privacy” is there, Americans will ask, in countries where

people prance around naked out of doors, while allowing the state to keep tabs on their

whereabouts, convict them on the basis of unfair police investigations, peer into their

living-rooms, tap their phones, and even dictate what names they can give to their babies?

        Evidently, Americans and continental Europeans perceive “privacy” differently.

Privacy advocates sometimes try to downplay these differences. The felt need for

privacy, they insist, is in fact universal, and the only real difference is that American

protections are the product of piecemeal legislation, less systematically developed than




36
   Melderechtsrahmengesetz (MRRG) von 24. Juni 1994.
37
   In Germany, this is governed by the Rundfunkgebührenstaatsvertrag (RGebStV) vom 31. August 1991,
zuletzt geändert durch Artikel 5 des Fünften Staatsvertrages zur Änderung rundfunkrechtlicher
Staatsverträge [I’m not making that up] von 06. Juli 2000 bis 07 August 2000 (Gesetz- und
Verordnungsblatt Berlin 2000, p. 447). For a popular website discussion of the powers of German
inspectors, see http://www.gezneindanke.de/faq.htm. For France, see Décret no. 92-304 du 30 mars 1992,
available at http://www.legifrance.gouv.fr./texteconsolide/FBHAD.htm; Stéphane Nerrant, La mise hors
d’usage du téléviseur et l’exigibilité de la redevance de l’audiovisuel (Intellex: 2000).
38
   For an authoritative assessment of the state of the differences, see Mirjan Damaska, Evidence Law Adrift
(New Haven: Yale U. Press, 1997), 13-14, 23-24.
39
   Figures in Hans-Jörg Albrecht, Claudia Dorsch and Christiane Krüpe, Rechtswirklichkeit und Effizienz
der Uberwachung der Telekommunikation nach den §§100a, 100b stop und andere verdeckter
Ermittlungsmaßnahmen, available at http.//www.bmj.bund.de/images/11600.pdf, p. 7. For an article
conceding that German law is theoretically more permissive but doubting that any empirical conclusions
can be drawn, see Paul Schwartz, German and U.S. Telecommunications Privacy Law: Legal Regulation of
Domestic Law En forcement Surveillance, 54 Hastings L.J. 751 (2003).


                                                                                                         8
European protections as yet, but nevertheless evolving in a European direction. 40 There

is certainly some truth in this: There are indeed important resemblanc es between the

systems on either side of the Atlantic. Any proper account of comparative privacy law

will have to explain many similarities as well as many differences.

        Nevertheless, when all is said and done, it is impossible to ignore the fact that

Americans and Europeans are, as the Americans would put it, coming from different

places. At least as far as the law goes, we do not seem to possess general “human”

intuitions about the “horror” of privacy violations. We possess something more

complicated than that: We possess American intuitions, or as the case may be Dutch,

Italian, French or German intuitions. We must make some effort to explain this fact

before we start proclaiming universal norms of privacy protection. In particular, we will

not do justice to our transatlantic conflicts if we begin by declaring that American privacy

law has “failed” while European privacy law has “succeeded.” That is hogwash. What

we must acknowledge, instead, is that there are, on the two sides of the Atlantic, two

different cultures of privacy, which are home to different intuitive sensibilities, and which

have produced two significantly different laws of privacy.



                                                   II

        So why do these sensibilities differ? Why is that French people won’t talk about

their salaries, but will take off their bikini tops? Why is that Americans comply with


40
  Daniel J. Solove and Marc Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law (New York: Aspen, 2003), 58; see also
Joel J. Reidenberg, Setting Standards for Fair Information Practice in the U.S. Private Sector, 80 Io wa
L.Rev. 497 (1995). For the emphasis on the piecemeal character of American law in an essay by an
eminent comparatist skeptical of the future of European-style protections in the U.S., see Hein Kötz,
Persönlichkeitsschutz im Anglo-Amerikanischen Rechtskreis, In Heinz Hübner, et al., eds., Das
Persönlichkeitsrecht im Spannungsfeld zwischen Informationsauftrag und Menschwürde (Munich: Beck,
1989), 104-105.


                                                                                                       9
court discovery orders that open essentially all of their documents for inspection, but

refuse to carry identity cards? Why is that Europeans tolerate state meddling in their

choice of baby names? Why is it that Americans submit to extensive credit reporting

without rebelling?

         These are not questions we can answer by assuming that all human beings share

the same raw intuitions about privacy. We do not have the same intuitions, as anybody

who has lived in more than one country ought to know. What we typically have is

something else: We have intuitions that have already been shaped by the prevailing legal

and social values of the societies in which we live. In particular, we have, if I may use a

clumsy phrase, juridified intuitions—intuitions that reflect our knowledge of, and

commitment to, the basic legal values of our culture.

         Indeed, to get a handle on our transatlantic privacy conflicts, we must begin by

recognizing that continental European and American sensibilities about privacy grow out

of much larger, and much older, differences over basic legal values, rooted in much

larger, and much older, differences in social and political traditions. The fundamental

contrast, in my view, is not difficult to identify. Indeed, in one form or another, it is a

contrast that has been noticed by observers of the transatlantic scene for a century. 41 It is




41
  See Joseph Kohler, Das Eigenbild im Recht (Berlin: Guttentag, 1903), 7 (American “right of privacy” a
mere right to remain hidden, which is inadequate) and 17 (correct German view is that one’s image must be
protected against “tasteless, insulting or degrading” appropriation or exposure.); Bernard Beignier, Le Droit
de la Personnalité (Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1992), 60-61 (contrasting focus on dignity with
characteristically American focus on liberty); François Rigaux, La protection de la vie privée et des autres
biens de la personnalité (Brussels : Bruylant, 1990), 698 (absence of concern with honor in American law);
Edward J. Eberle, Dignity and Liberty, Constitutional Visions in Germany and the United States (Westport:
Praeger, 2002). The relative absence of honor-oriented dignity in America has also been noted by Jeffrey
Rosen, in passages citing my own earlier work. Rosen, The Purposes of Privacy: A Response, 89 Geo L.J.
2117, 2125-217 (2001).


                                                                                                          10
the contrast between two conceptions of privacy most recently distinguished by Robert

Post: between privacy as as an aspect of dignity and privacy as an aspect of liberty. 42

         Continental privacy protections are, at their core, a form of protection of a right to

respect and personal dignity. The core continental privacy rights are rights to one’s

image, name and reputation,43 and what Germans call the right to informational self-

determination, the right to control the sorts of information disclosed about us.44 These

are closely linked forms of the same basic right: They are all rights to control your public


42
   These are two of the three concepts identified by Post in Three Concepts of Privacy, 89 Geo. L. J., 2087,
2087 (2000).
43
   European scholars sometimes treat the right to one’s image and the right to privacy as different, if always
closely related, interests. This is particularly because of the issues raised by the commercialization of the
image. See e.g. [G. Loiseau, L’autonomie du droit à l’image, légicom n_20 1999/4, p. 71.] Florence
Bouvard, La Commercialisation de l'Image de la Personne Physique, in Image et Droit, ed. Pascale Bloch
(np.p: Harmattan, 2002), 375-411, here 380-384. Nevertheless, French jurisprudence tends to see it
differently, see Cass. 1ère civ., 13, janv. 1998, discussed in Lamberterie and Strubel, L’Image Manipulée,
349-350, and indeed, the spirit of both bodies of law is much the same. It is justifiable to treat them as, at
core, a single body of law, concerned in all of its aspects with the public image.
The German law is codified in the Kunsturhebergesetz:
          § 22 Recht am eigenen Bilde
          Bildnisse dürfen nur mit Einwilligung des Abgebildeten verbreitet oder öffentlich zur Schau
          gestellt werden. Die Einwilligung gilt im Zweifel als erteilt, wenn der Abgebildete dafür, daß er
          sich abbilden ließ, eine Entlohnung erhielt. Nach dem Tode des Abgebildeten bedarf es bis zum
          Ablaufe von 10 Jahren der Einwilligung der Angehörigen des Abgebildeten. Angehörige im Sinne
          dieses Gesetzes sind der überlebende Ehegatte und die Kinder des Abgebildeten, und wenn weder
          ein Ehegatte noch Kinder vorhanden sind, die Eltern des Abgebildeten.
          § 23 Ausnahmen zu § 22
          (1) Ohne die nach § 22 erforderliche Einwilligung dürfen verbreitet und zur Schau gestellt
               werden:
                    1.Bildnisse aus dem Bereiche der Zeitgeschichte;
                    2.Bilder, auf denen die Personen nur als Beiwerk neben einer Landschaft oder sonstigen
                    Örtlichkeit erscheinen;
                    3. Bilder von Versammlungen, Aufzügen und ähnlichen Vorgängen, an denen die
                    dargestellten Personen teilgenommen haben;
                    4.Bildnisse, die nicht auf Bestellung angefertigt sind, sofern die Verbreitung oder
                    Schaustellung einem höheren Interesse der Kunst dient.

         (2) Die Befugnis erstreckt sich jedoch nicht auf eine Verbreitung und Schaustellung, durch die ein
         berechtigtes Interesse des Abgebildeten oder, falls dieser verstorben ist, seiner Angehörigen
         verletzt wird.
For detailed discussion on the current state of German law, see Gerhard Stricker, ed., Urheberrecht.
Kommentar (Munich: Beck, 1999), commentary to §§ 22 and 23 (Ekkehard Gerstenberg and Horst-Peter
Götting), 926-965.
44
   Detailed discussion in Eberle, Dignity and Liberty, 87-92. For the general outlines of the German right,
see Otto Mühl and Walther Hadding, eds., Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer, 1998), § 823,
3 (Zeuner).


                                                                                                          11
image, rights to guarantee that people see you the way you want to be seen. They are, as

it were, rights to be shielded against unwanted public exposure—to be spared

embarrassment or humiliation. The prime enemy of our “privacy,” according to this

continental conception, is the media, which always threatens to broadcast unsavory

information about us in ways that endanger our public dignity. But of course any agent

that gathers and disseminates information can also pose dangers. In its focus on shielding

us from public indignity, the continental conception is typical of the continental legal

world much more broadly: On the Continent, the protection of personal dignity has been

a consuming concern for many generations.

        America, by contrast, in this as in so many things, is much more oriented toward

values of liberty, and especially liberty over against the state. At its conceptual core, the

American right to privacy still takes much the form that it took in the eighteenth century:

It is the right to freedom from intrusions by the state, especially in one’s own home. 45

The prime danger, from the American point of view, is that “the sanctity of [our] homes,”

in the words of a leading nineteenth-century Supreme Court opinion, will be breached by

government actors. 46 American anxieties thus turn comparatively little on the media.

Instead, they tend to be anxieties about maintaining a kind of private sovereignty within

our own walls.

        Such is the contrast that lies at the base of our diverge nt sensibilities about what

counts as a “privacy” violation. On the one hand, we have an Old World in which it




45
   For the commonplace that this is the origin of the American right to privacy: e.g. Rosen, Unwanted
Gaze, 5.
46
   Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 630 (1886).


                                                                                                        12
seems fundamentally important not to lose public face 47 ; on the other a New World in

which it seems fundamentally important to preserve the home as a citadel of individual

sovereignty. When Americans seem to continental Europeans to violate norms of

privacy, it is because they seem to display an embarrassing lack of concern for public

dignity—whether the issue is the public indignity inflicted upon Monica Lewinsky by the

media, or the self- inflicted indignity of an American who boasts about his salary.

Conversely, when continental Europeans seem to Americans to violate norms of privacy,

it is because they seem to show a supine lack of resistance to into the realm of private

sovereignty whose main citadel is the home—whether the issue is wire-tapping or baby

names. The question of public nudity presents the contrast in piquant form. To the

continental way of seeing things, what matters is the right to control your public image—

and that right may include the right to present yourself proudly nude, if you so choose.

To the American mind, by contrast, what matters is sovereignty within one’s own home;

and people who have shucked the protection of clothing are like people who have

shucked the protection of the walls of their homes, only moreso. They are people who

have surrendered any “reasonable expectation of privacy.”48

        Now, let me emphasize that this contrast is not absolute. These are complex

societies, which are home to a variety of sensibilities, concerns, traditions and mutual

influences. There are certainly some Americans who find the European idea of dignity

appealing. One notable example is Justice Kennedy, whose opinion in Lawrence v.




47
   Indeed, Europeans have been denouncing American law on that ground since at least 1903. See Joseph
Kohler, Das Eigenbild im Recht (Berlin: Guttentag, 1903), 7 (American “right of privacy” a mere right to
remain hidden, which is inadequate) and 17 (correct German view is that one’s image must be protected
against “tasteless, insulting or degrading” appropriation or exposure.)
48
    See the fuller discussion below.


                                                                                                       13
Texas expresses admiration for European approaches, 49 and who tries energetically to

found his opinion on ideals of both liberty and dignity. For that matter, there are

Europeans who find the characteristic American approach appealing. Moreover, it is

certainly the case that both forms of the protection of privacy are in force to some extent

on both sides of the Atlantic: There are some protections against the media and the like

in the United States, and there are certainly some tort cases protecting people’s public

image. 50 As for Europe: There are certainly some quite far-reaching protections against

the state there, and there is certainly law protecting people within the bounds of the

home. 51

        So it would be wrong to say that there is some absolute difference between

American and continental European law. But the issue is not whether there is an absolute

difference. There are never absolute differences in comparative law. Comparative law is

the study of relative differences. Indeed, it is the great methodological advantage of

comparative law that it can explore relative differences. No absolute generalization about

any legal system is ever true. It would false, for example, to say that American law is

hostile to the social welfare state: It is easy to think of exceptions to that generalization.

But what is true is that American law is more hostile to the social welfare state than

continental law—and that is a statement that is not only true, but highly important for

understanding the world in which we live.

        The same is the case when it comes to comparative privacy law. Our differences

are only relative; but they are no less profoundly important for that. Americans and

49
   Slip op. at 16.
50
   See below.
51
   Chrisje Brants, The State and the Nation’s Bedrooms; The Fundamental Right of Sexual Autonomy, in
Peter Alldridge and Chrisje Brants,m Personal Autonomy, the Private Sphere and the Criminal Law
(Oxford: Hart, 2001), 117-138.


                                                                                                   14
Europeans do sometimes arrive at the same conclusions. Nevertheless, they have

different starting points, and different ultimate understandings of what counts as a just

society. If I may use a cosmological metaphor: American privacy law is a body caught

in the gravitational orbit of liberty values, while European law is caught in the orbit of

dignity. There are certainly times when the two bodies of law approach each other more

or less nearly. Nevertheless, they are consistently pulled in different directions, and the

consequence is that these two legal orders really do meaningfully differ: Continental

Europeans are consistently more drawn to problems touching on public dignity, while

Americans are consistently more drawn to problems touching on the depradations of the

state. Indeed, as our many transatlantic conflicts suggest, the distances between us can

often stretch into the unbridgeable.

       It should be obvious enough that this is not a contrast that we can understand by

reflecting on the supposed universal intuitive imperatives of “personhood,” or of “the

integrity of the person.” One’s sense of personhood can be grounded just as much in an

attachment to liberty as in an attachment to dignity. Maybe Europeans feel that their

personhood is confirmed by the fact that their bosses are obliged to respect their privacy

in the workplace, or by the fact that they can freely strip and sun themselves in central

Berlin. That does not prevent Americans from feeling that their personhood is confirmed

when they sit home, a shotgun across their knees, determined to resist taxation.

       No, the issue is not that on one side of the Atlantic true “personhood” has been

discovered, while the other lags behind. Something else is going on. The only way to

think straight about these differences is to reflect on the core social values of dignity or

liberty. The comparative law of privacy is not about the intuitive pre-conditions of




                                                                                               15
personhood, but about contrasting political and social ideals. In the United States those

political and social ideals revolve, as they have for generations, primarily around our

suspicions of the police and other officials; while on the continent they revolve

unmistakably around one’s position in society, one’s “dignity” and “honor.”

       Such is the contrast this essay explores. Its focus will be more on the continent,

whose world is too little known among Americans. I will keep my account of American

law sketchier, in the hope of offering a text of readable length. But I hope that even a

sketch of American law will stand out in much bolder and more revealing relief when

placed against the continental background.



                                             III

       Let us begin, then, with the Continent.

       The political and social values of “dignity” and “honor” are indeed what is at

stake in the continental concept of privacy, in ways that we can only understand if we dig

deeply into continental traditions. That is what I propose to do in the next few sections of

this essay, focusing, as I have done in a series of related publications, on Germany and

France, the two dominant legal traditions of the Continent. Here I must begin by

summarizing work I have published on a variety of aspects of European “dignity.”

       Where do the peculiar continental anxieties about “privacy” come from? To

understand the continental law of privacy, we must start by recognizing how deeply

“dignity” and “honor” matter in continental law more broadly. Privacy is not the only

area in which continental law aims to protect people from shame and humiliation, from

loss of public dignity. The law of privacy, in these continental countries, is only one




                                                                                            16
member of a much wider class of legal protections for interpersonal respect. The

importance of the value of respect in continental law is most familiar to Americans from

one body of law in particular: the continental law of hate speech, which protects

minorities against disrespectful epithets. But the continental attachment to norms of

respect goes well beyond hate speech. Minorities are not the only ones protected against

disrespectful epithets on the Continent. Everybody is protected against disrespect,

through the continental law of “insult,” a very old body of law that protects the individual

right to “personal honor.”52 Nor does it end there. Continental law protects the right of

workers to respectful treatment by their bosses and co-workers, through what is called the

law of “mobbing” or “moral harassment.” This is law that protects employees against

being addressed disrespectfully, shunned, or even assigned humilating tasks like

xeroxing. 53 Continental law also protects the right of women to respectful treatment

through its version of the law of sexual harassment. It even tries to protect the right of

prison inmates to respectful treatment, as I have noted in a recent book, to a degree

almost unimaginable for Americans. 54

        Why does continental law work so hard to guarantee norms of “respect,”

“dignity” and “personal honor” in so many walks of life? This is a question to which I

believe we must give a different answer from the answer Europeans themselves

commonly give. Europeans generally give a dramatic answer to the question of why

“dignity” figures so prominently in their law: They assert that contemporary continental



52
   J. Whitman, “Enforcing Civility and Respect: Three Societies,” Yale Law Journal 109 (2000): 1279-
1398.
53
    J. Whitman and G. Friedman, “The European Transformation of Harassment Law,” Columbia Journal of
European Law 9 (2003): 241-274
54
    J. Whitman, Harsh Justice: Criminal Punishment and the Widening Divide between America and Europe
(Oxford University Press, 2003).


                                                                                                  17
“dignity” is the product of a reaction against fascism, and especially against Nazism.

Having experienced the horrific indignities of the 1930s and 1940s, continental societies,

Europeans say, have mended their ways. Europe has dignity today because Europe was

traumatized seventy years ago. This is an answer that is often embraced by Americans,

too—most notably Robert Kagan, in his recent best-seller Of Paradise and Power. 55

           And indeed, it is hard to resist a story with so much natural drama. But I have

tried to demonstrate that the real story is different, and much more complicated than that.

The European culture of dignity is not well understood as any kind of simple reaction

against fascism. Indeed, even the place of fascism in the making of European dignity is

more ambiguous that one might suppose. In fact, the history of the continental law of

dignity begins long before the post-war period. It begins in the eighteenth, and even the

seventeenth centuries. The continental societies that we see today are the descendants of

the sharply hierarchical societies that existed two or two-and-a-half centuries ago—of the

aristocratic and monarchical societies of which the France of Louis XIV was the model.

In point of fact, continental law has enforced norms of respect and dignity for a very long

time. In earlier centuries, though, only persons of high social status could expect their

right to respect to be protected in court. Indeed, well into the twentieth century, only

high-status persons could expect to be treated respectfully in the daily life of Germany or

France, and only high-status persons could expect their “personal honor” to be protected

in continental courts. Members of the lower orders—the vast majority of the

population—had no meaningful right to respect. Quite the contrary.

           What we see, in continental law today, is the result of a centuries- long, slow-

maturing, revolt against that style of status privilege. Over time, it has come to seem
55
     Kagan, Of Paradise and Power (New York: Knopf, 2003).


                                                                                              18
unacceptable that only certain persons should enjoy legal protections for their “dignity.”

Indeed, the rise of norms of respect for everybody—even minorities, even prison

inmates—represent s a great social transformation on the Continent. Everybody is now

supposed to be treated in ways that only highly-placed and wealthy people were treated a

couple of centuries ago. Germany and France have been the theater of a leveling up, of

an extensio n of historically high-status norms throughout the population. As the French

sociologist Philippe d’Iribarne has elegantly put it, the promise of modern continental

society is the promise that, where there were once masters and slaves, now “you shall all

be masters!”56

        The uncomfortable paradox, as I have tried to show, is that much of this leveling

up took place during the fascist period: For fascist politics involved precisely the

promise that all members of nation-state would be equal in “honor”—that all racial

Germans, for example, would be “masters.”57 For that very reason, some of the

fundamental institutions of the continental law of dignity experienced significant

development under the star of fascism. In fact, the fascist period, seen in proper

sociological perspective, was one stage in a continuous history of the extension of honor

throughout all echelons of continental society.

        This long-term secular leveling- up tendency has shaped continental law in a very

fundamental way. Contemporary continental hate speech protections, for example, can

be traced back to dueling law: In the nineteenth century, continental courts protected the

right to respect only of the dueling classes. Today they protect everybody’s right to


56
  Iribarne, Vous serez tous des maîtres! ().
57
  J. Whitman, “From Fascist ‘Honour’ to European ‘Dignity’” in C. Joerges and N. Ghaleigh, eds., The
Darker Legacy of European Law: Perceptions of Europe and Perspectives on a European Order in Legal
Scholarship during the Era of Fascism and National Socialism (Cambridge: Hart, 2003), 243-266.


                                                                                                       19
respect. (Indeed, the rules of dueling have had a striking influence in the Continent,

sometimes being imported bodily into the law.) Contemporary protections for prison

inmates have a very similar history: In the eighteenth century, continental law

maintained sharp distinctions between high and low status punishments. If executed,

high-status offenders were beheaded, while low-status offenders were hanged; if spared,

high-status offenders were housed in comfortable apartments, while low-status offenders

were subjected to degrading penal slavery. In the two centuries since the French

Revolution, the old high-status forms of punishment have gradually been generalized to

all: All inmates are now treated according to a regime of imprisonment that was once

reserved to figures like Voltaire. 58 Such has been the history of the continental law of

respect. It is a history, as I have tried to show, that has always been closely linked with

the history of continental etiquette, which also began as a set of rules for courtiers, only

to be generalized to the entire population. Indeed, the rules of etiquette, like the rules of

dueling, have sometimes exercised a direct influence on the making of the European law

of respect, which is often concerned with matters like the legal right to be addressed as

“Vous” or “Sie.”

          Such is the world of continental respect; and it is also the world of continental

“privacy.” When continental lawyers speak of “privacy” as a set of rights over the

control of one’s image, name and reputation, and over the public disclosure of

information about oneself, they are speaking to these selfsame continental sensibilities.

To be sure, they are talking about “privacy” in a way that many Americans also talk

about it. The idea that “privacy” is really about the control of one’s public image has

long appealed to the most philosophically sophisticated American commentators, from
58
     Whitman Harsh Justice.


                                                                                               20
Alan Westin, 59 to Charles Fried, 60 to Jeffrey Rosen, 61 to Thomas Nagel. 62 Moreover, it is

an idea that can already be found in the most famous of American articles, Warren and

Brandeis’ 1890 “The Right to Privacy.”63 All of these American writers have viewed the

danger in the violation of our “privacy” as the danger that we will lose the capacity to

control what Goffman famously called our “presentation of self,” our image before the

eyes of others in society. All of them have thought of our right to privacy, perhaps a

shade paradoxically, as our right to a public image of our own making, as the right of

control of our public face. Indeed, it is precisely for that reason that they have insisted on

the connection between privacy and personhood.

        So the prevailing continental conception is also the one that most thoughtful

Americans commentators on privacy and “personhood” have found the wisest and most

sophisticated. But if this conception has triumphed in continental law, it is not because

European lawyers possess any unique measure of wisdom or sophistication. Law is not

about the realization in this world of wisdom or sophistication as such. Law is about

what works, what seems appealing and appropriate in a given society, and the conception

of privacy as control of one’s “image” has succeeded because it fits into continental

social traditions, and into a quotidian continental culture of respect. Continental privacy

is “continental” in much the way that continental hate speech law is “continental,” in

much the way that continental prison law is “continental”—or for that matter, in much

the way that continental etiquette is “continental.”


59
   Westin, Privacy and Freedom (1967).
60
   Fried, Privacy, 77 Yale L.J. 475 (1968).
61
   Unwanted Gaze, 8 and often.
62
   Nagel, Concealment and Exposure (Oxford: Oxford U.P., 2002), 4. Similarly: Stanley Benn, Privacy,
Freedom and Respect for Persons, in Nomos XIII: Privacy (J. Ronald Pennock & J.W. Chapman,eds.,
1971).
63
   4 Harvard L. Rev. 193 (1890).


                                                                                                       21
        Indeed, etiquette makes, as so often, a striking example. It is not an accident that

both etiquette and privacy law show the same anxious preoccupation with “public

image.” Thus it is common for continental etiquette guides to open with a section called

“how we present ourselves before the world”64 ; or “the politesse of appearances”65 ; or

more broadly a section on how to maintain the correct external look and manners. 66

Rules about how to dress and how to wear makeup are part of continental etiquette just as

are rules about how to comport oneself on the street, at table or in the workplace. 67

Continental etiquette is indeed overwhelmingly about “the presentation of self in

everyday life,” just like continental privacy law. In fact, continental authors sometimes

consciously present etiquette and privacy law as related subjects: For example, you can

buy a book for German journalists, published by the leading German newspaper, called

“Kleiner Knigge des Presserechts”—a little etiquette book of press law—which treats all

of the standard questions of privacy as questions of good manners. 68

        But it is not just that conception of privacy as control over one’s image fits into

the traditions of continental etiquette. It fits into the continental traditions of “dignity,”

“respect” and “personal honor” more broadly. 69 As we shall see shortly, continental

privacy law, like most continental law of respect, developed largely from the law of

“insult.” It even has connections with dueling. It has a Nazi history. Most generally, it
64
   Gian Amedeo Rossini, Il Grande Libro del Galateo (n.p. : Gulliver, 1997), [7] : “Come ci si presenta al
mondo.”
65
   Denuelle, Savoir-Vivre, 9-22.
66
   Giesela Tautz-Wieβner, Lebensart. Erfolgreich und beliebt durch gute Umgangsformen (Frankfurt a.M.:
Ullstein, 1993), 15-57.
67
   E.g. Hermine de Clermont-Tonnerre, Politesse Oblige. Le savoir-vivre aujourd’hui (n.p.: L’archipel,
1996), 15-49; Rosemarie Wrede-Grishkat, Hohe Schule des guten Benehmens. Erfolgreich und sicher auf
jedem Parkett (Augsburg: Augustus Verlag, 1999), 105-168, 23-82.
68
   Rudolf Gerhardt and Erich Steffen, Kleiner Knigge des Presserechts (Frankfurt a.M.: F.A.Z.-Institut,
2002).
69
   See the similar, but sketchy, historical observations of Heinz Holzhauer, Zur Vorgeschichte des
allgemeinen Persönlichkeitsrechts, in Hans-Uwe Erichsen, Helmut Kollhosser and Jürgen Welp, eds.,
Recht der Persönlichkeit (Berlin: Duncker und Humblot, 1996), 62-71.


                                                                                                        22
fits within the tradition of status revolution that has shaped so much of continental law—

the revolution of leveling up. Indeed, as I want to insist in this essay, continental privacy

protections offer perhaps the paradigmatic example of high-status norms that have been

generalized to the wider population. For as we can all instantly recognize, the conception

of privacy as control over one’s public image is a conception originally and primarily

concerned with the doings of very high-status persons.

        Indeed, critics have always insisted that notion of privacy as a right to control

one’s “image” is a notion primarily of interest to people of very high status—to

personages like the Warrens of Boston, or for that matter like Princess Caroline of

Monaco, whose affairs still provide constant grist for the continental privacy mill. The

conception of “privacy” as control of one’s “image” rests, at base, on the idea that you

ought to be able to keep your name and picture out of the newspapers. This is obviously

a conception that matters primarily to members of “society” as the term is used in the

phrase “society pages.”

        And just that is what we see in continental privacy law: a high-status conception

of privacy, a “society” conception of privacy. In fact, it is almost comical to read off the

names in the captions of the leading post-war continental cases. Open a book on

comparative privacy law; here are the names you will see: Princess Soraya, 70 Princess

Caroline of Monaco, 71 Prince Ernst August of Hanover. 72 There is a remarkable

disproportion of royalty in continental privacy thinking. Down to this day, in fact,

German texts list royalty first among the classes of “public figures” who require special


70
   In Donald Kommers, The Constitutional Jurisprudence of the Federal Republic of Germany, 2d ed.
(Durham: Duke U. Press, 1997), 124-128.
71
   NJW 96, 1128; most recently BVerfG, Urt. V. 15.12.1999, 1 BvR 653/96, in NJW 2000 1021.
72
   For his peculiar importance, Soehring, Presserecht, 428, with further citations.


                                                                                                    23
treatment in the law of privacy73 ; while French texts, the product of a deeper democratic

tradition, only list royalty second, after politicians. 74 “Members of the aristocracy”75 too

are presented as classes that must be specially treated. These are textbooks written in

worlds that remain very different from ours. Even the non-royals and non-aristocrats

involved in the leading European privacy cases are often very prominent persons indeed:

Hjalmar Schacht, former Nazi finance minister, Robert Barcia, long-time eminence grise

of the French Trotskyite party. 76 Indeed, an American cynic who wants to mock the

vaunted continental commitment to privacy will point gleefully at these names. At core,

the American will sneer, the continental protection for privacy grants everyone alike the

right to be safe from paparazzi. Does this really have anything to do with the values of a

true democracy? At best, continental privacy law is, not a form of protection for

universal human “personhood,” but a means of regulating the relations between

celebrities and the rest of us.

         Nevertheless, as I want to insist, to take that mocking attitude would be to

underestimate the moral claims of European leveling up, as it expresses itself in privacy

law. There is more to the law than its practical impact. The law also aims to express

social values—the continental law of privacy as much as or more than any other body of

law. What the continental law of privacy expresses is the fundamental social importance

of a commitment to extend royal treatment to everyone. Indeed, we cannot understand

our transatlantic conflicts if we do not recognize the authentically wide social extension

73
   E.g. Oesterrieth, Urheberrecht, 173. (One notes with bemu sement that within the second category of
public figures described in this text, “professors and academics” rank second after politicians, and ahead of
“writers, artists, virtuosos, actors.” Ah Germany!)
74
   Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 26-32.
75
   Sehring, Presserecht, 432 (members of aristocracy not ipso facto public figures, but peculiarly liable to
become public figures on account of their activities or accomplishments), 437.
76
   Cour d’Appel de Paris, 1ère chambre, section B, Arret du 20 Septembre 2001, Barcia c/S.A. Groupe
Express.


                                                                                                          24
of “society” privacy in continental law. Over the past several generations, the basic

commitment to control of one’s public image has been extended well beyond its origins

in the problems of the Princess Carolines of the world, in ways that do indeed affect the

lives of ordinary people. This is most especially true of the areas where the conflicts

between continental and American norms are most heated: areas like consumer data,

credit reporting, public nudity and the dignity of criminal offenders. These are all realms

of life in which continental law has forcefully extended privacy protections to non-

celebrities and non-royals: Control of one’s “image,” in the continental mind, now

includes not only everybody’s right to keep their names out of the newspapers, but

everybody’s right to control the use of their consumer data and the like as well;

everybody’s right to privacy in the workplace; everybody’s right (if they should need it)

to respectful imprisonment; and more. Continental privacy law is, as it were, “society”

privacy for everybody.

         One recent German popular guide to the law proudly puts it in this way in its

opening pages, in language that deserves to be underlined. Privacy rights, the book

explains, are part of a larger law of the “defense of personal honor”; and nowadays it’s

not just the “royal houses” whose image is threatened; “everybody is in danger.”77 Silly

enough—but also truly appealing in its way. Of course it matters to insist that everybody

counts the same way royalty does, from racial minorities and prison inmates on up

through the ranks of society. Of course it matters.




77
  Peter Raue, Persönlichkeitsrechte. Die Verteidigung der persönlichen Ehre (Frankfurt a.M.: Fischer,
1997), 11-12. For a similar view from an American with a continental sensibility, see Rosen, Unwanted
Gaze, 202: “private citizens run the risk of being treated like celebrities in the worst sense, vilified rather
than celebrated. . . “


                                                                                                                  25
                                             IV

       There is no better way to grasp this continental social ideal than to trace its

historical development, from its origins in the nineteenth-century world of dueling,

through the Nazi period, and on into its modern forms of workplace privacy. Continental

jurists have also always tried to understand “privacy” as a species of personal honor. As

a result, continental privacy law has assumed a distinctive shape, very different from

what we find in the United States. In particular, going back to the nineteenth century,

continental thinking has always treated privacy as a value primarily threatened by two

forces: by the excesses of the free press and by the excesses of the free market. From the

point of view of the nineteenth-century continental tradition, there were two things that

peculiarly menaced a respectable person’s “honor”: loose talk, and the grubbiness of the

world of buying and selling. Continental privacy law has been shaped by a long-standing

battle waged against both. Indeed, the history of continental privacy law has been, in

essence, the history of the resistance, in the name of “honor,” to two of the fundamental

values of American liberty: the value of free speech, and the value of private property as

distributed through the market.

       French law developed mostly over the period 1790-1900, while German law

developed later, from about 1880-1960. The two traditions have peculiar emphases.

French law has had to struggle in a distinctive way with France’s recurrent periods of

sexual license, and German law was peculiarly formed by the events of the Nazi period

and after. Nevertheless, both remain recognizably continental, and recognizably different

from American law. In particular, in both countries, the law of the protection of privacy




                                                                                            26
was built using the doctrinal resources of the classic continental law of personal honor,

the law of “insult,” in tandem with the law of artistic and intellectual property.

         Let us begin with France. French ideas about the protection of “private life” date

at least to the early modern period. High-status families have always sought to protect

their “privacy” in France, and they have sometimes succeeded. For example, for several

centuries, the French nobility successfully fought off efforts to require public registration

of the mortgages on their real property. Such a measure, it was said, would “impair the

credit of too many fine families,” and until shortly before the French Revolution, the

aristocracy defeated every royal effort to create a recordation system. 78 There were other

ways, too, in which high-status ancien régime Frenchmen sought to protect their privacy.

         But the modern history of French privacy protection, which has been sadly

neglected, 79 begins with the Revolution, and most particularly with the introduction of

freedom of the press. Freedom of the press has always made leading French observers

nervous, even ones with very liberal beliefs. Thus the first French effort to create

constitutional protections for the freedom of the press was already accompanied by a

proviso intended to guarantee that “private life,” as an integral part of personal “honor,”

would not be subject to press depredations. The Constitution of 1791, the first

revolutionary attempt to found a new kind of liberal society, included extensive

protections for freedom of the press. But at the same time it added protections against

“calumnies and insults relative to private life.”80 One of the draftsmen of the


78
   A. Franken, Das französische Pfandrecht im Mittelalter (repr. Aalen: Scientia, 1969) (1879), 20-23 and J.
Minier, Précis historique du droit français. Introduction à l’étude du droit (Paris, 1854), 55, 637-638.
79
   French texts treat the protection of privacy, quite erroneously, as a phenomenon dating only to the second
half of the nineteenth century. See e.g, Bernard Beignier, Le Droit de la Personnalité (Paris : Presses
Universitaires de France, 1992), 46-47.
80
   Constitution du 3 Septembre 1791, [ ], 17 : « Les calomnies et injures contre quelques personnes que ce
soit relatives aux actions de leur vie privée, seront punies sur leur poursuite. »


                                                                                                         27
Constitution, the Jacobin Jérôme Pétion, speaking during the flush of revolutionary

excitement in August of 1791, explained the intent of the new document this way. A

vigorous free press was unconditionally necessary for the maintenance of liberal

government. 81 Nevertheless, it was true that those very press liberties threatened the

“private person.”82 For that reason, it was important to confer upon persons whose

private lives had been violated some legal recourse against “insults.” To do so would not

undermine the freedoms gained in the Revolution. On the contrary, it would achieve a

revolutionary end. In fact, the “new doctrine,” with its emphasis on the rights of ordinary

private persons, directly “contradicted the ideas of the ancien régime.” After all:

         [In the ancien régime] the least offense given to the honor of a man of position

         was a serious crime, which could not be punished severely enough, while an

         offense to a simple citizen hardly received any attention on the part of the law.

         But for that very reason, the new doctrine is all the more correct and in

         conformity to the new order of things. 83

The first introduction of “privacy” into Frenc h law thus came in the form of a classic

statement of the ambition to bring everybody up in status. The introduction of privacy

protections was indeed akin to contemporary developments like the introduction of the

guillotine. The guillotine arrived shortly after Pétion gave this speech, as a means of

extending the high-status privilege of beheading to all persons. 84 It too belonged to a

“new order of things” in which everybody’s honor was to be protected.




81
   J. Pétion, Discours sur la liberté de la Presse, in Courier de Provence, vol. 16, no. 325, 169-192.
82
   Id., no. 326, 199.
83
   Id., 199.
84
   Whitman, Harsh Justice.


                                                                                                         28
         These remained the characteristic ideas of French privacy law thereafter—notably

in 1819, the year of the passage of the first post-Napoleonic law lifting press censorship.

As the Restoration successfully established its authority, the government of Louis

Philippe consented to tolerate a freer press. But the idea of press freedom continued to

trouble even liberally minded Frenchmen, and the classic nineteenth-century statement of

the importance of privacy emerged as soon as press censorship was even partially lifted.

In fact, it came, once again, from a leading advocate of press reform: Pierre-Paul Royer-

Collard, a leading politician, professor of philosophy at the Sorbonne and hero of French

liberalism. Royer-Collard, even as he defended press liberalization, gave a famous

speech warning that “private life” had to be “walled off” (“murée”) against the danger of

“calomnie,” insult. The press, he said, had to be free, but the only proper realm for press

freedom was the public sphere, and even true facts about “private life” could not be

lawfully published. 85 In the course of his speechifying, Royer-Collard produced a classic

morsel of French metaphoric oratory—“private life must be walled off!”—that

established itself as a standard continental slogan, repeated well into the twentieth

century. 86

         To be sur e, what Royer-Collard produced was an oration, not a law, and for

several decades thereafter there was little by way of protection for privacy in the letter of

French law. For that reason, French legal historians treat the period of the 1820s through

the 1840s as a time when there was simply no protection for private life. 87 But it is a real

mistake to conclude from the absence of law about privacy that no protection existed. In

85
   Barante, La vie politique de monsieur Royer-Collard, ses discourse et ses écrits (Paris: Didier, 1863), 1:
474-475.
86
   E.g. Albert Vaunois, La liberté du portrait (Paris: Chevalier-Marescq, 1894), 6 ; Osterrieth, Urheberrecht,
179.
87
   Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée et droit à l’image, 2.


                                                                                                          29
this period, one’s private affairs remained a matter of one’s honor, and one’s honor

remained a thing more precious, as French authors regularly declared, than life itself.

During the decades after 1819, though, the primary means of protecting one’s honor was

through the duel, and “private life” was defended, at least sometimes, in exactly that way.

Thus the dueling literature listed “the delicacy of private life” among the aspects of

“honor” that demanded protection. 88 And it was indeed so protected, as we can see from

the example of one of the most famous dueling incidents in French history, the case of

the Duchess of Berry. The Duchess was a leading royalist agitator and mother of the

Comte de Chambord, the pretender to the throne. While she was being held prisoner in a

fortress in 1833, after an attempt to foment rebellion, it was publicly revealed that she

was pregnant—even though she had been widowed for some years. As Louis Blanc

described the resulting scandal, the Duchess’ “intimate life” was “exposed to the

insulting commentaries of the multitude.” “In vain,” he added, “had she counted upon

that solidarity of honor that reigns among relatives, even ones of obscure social

condition, and that, protecting families, saves them from scandal by keeping secrets.”89

Her family did not defend her, but several royalists did: This famous violation of royal

privacy caused more than one duel between royalists and republicans—including one in

which several royalist journalists challenged several republican ones to a gigantic

duello, 90 and another in which the eminent General Bugeaud killed a member of the




88
   Eugène Cauchy, Du Duel, considéré dans ses Origines et dans l’État Actuel des Moeurs (Paris,
Guillaumin, 1863), 2: 41.
89
   Louis Blanc, Histoire de Dix Ans, 1830-1840 (Paris : Pagnerre, []), 22-23.
90
   See the account in Fougeroux de Campigneulles, Histoire des Duels Anciens et Modernes (Paris:
Tessier/Cherbuliez, 1835), 385-387.


                                                                                                   30
Chamber of Deputies. 91 The honor of “private life” was not protected by the law in the

1830s; but it was defended.

         By the mid-nineteenth century, though, this extravagant world of dueling honor

began slowly to fade, and questions of “private life” began to migrate into the law. It part

this reflected uneasiness about the traditions of dueling, as commentators demanded that

questions of “honor” be settled in court. 92 But it also reflected shifting patterns of both

political and sexual liberation. In the middle of the nineteenth century, the claims of the

free press became more insistent, and public morality became less straitlaced. Both

developments created privacy problems for French law.

         Already in the 1850s, some famous cases affirmed the core privacy right that

would come to be known in French law as the “right to one’s image.” These first cases

involved deathbed photographs—in two cases, deathbed photographs of celebrity

beauties, and in one case the deathbed photograph of a kind of Mother-Teresa-type street

missionary. 93 But it was the following decades that saw the most striking

developments—in particular, developments that involved the comparatively unbuttoned

sexual atmosphere of later nineteenth-century Paris. Sexual license and the law of

privacy have always gone hand in hand; and France had been famous for its relatively

loose morals since at least the eighteenth century, the aristocratic age of Watteau,

Boucher and Fragonard. This tradition revived in the mid-nineteenth century, the age of

the cancan, and it gave rise to numerous “privacy” issues, as cultures of sexual liberation

91
   http://99.1911encyclopedia.org/B/BU/BUGEAUD_DE_LA_PICONNERIE.htm.
92
   E.g., Cauchy, Du Duel.
93
   Soeur Mélanie c. Fougère [cite]; Sergent c. Defonds, Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et
Littéraire 6 (1860), 168-171; Félix c. O’Connell, Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et
Littéraire 4 (1858), 250-52. The beauties were Rachel, a famous tragic actress, and a certain Mlle. Sergent,
who, to judge by the opinion, lived something of a loose but exciting life. The missionary was Soeur
Rosalie. The graves of both Rachel and Soeur Rosalie are still visited today by Paris cemetery tourists. For
general discussion, see Vaunois in Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire 1888, 286.


                                                                                                         31
tend to do. Especially beginning in the gay years of the 1860s, “right to one’s image”

cases began to multiply.

        A particularly famous 1867 case involved Alexandre Dumas père, the author of

The Three Musketeers, itself an important document of nineteenth-century French

dueling culture. Dumas père, then well on in years, became involved in a love affair with

Adah Isaacs Menken, a thirty-two- year-old Texas actress and horsewoman, famous for

appearing on stage dressed only in a body stocking. Obviously reveling in their rejection

of bourgeois values, the scandalous Menken and Dumas posed (together with Menken’s

mother!) for several more or less salacious photographs. Some of them showed Menken

in her underwear. Others showed her in amorous poses with Dumas, who was not

wearing a jacket. Dumas, whether through inadvertence or sheer glorious indifference,

did not enter into any express agreement with the photographer about the rights to publish

the photos. Seizing his chance, the photographer tried to register his copyright in what

were highly marketable images. In responding to the photographer’s application, the

copyright officials were not entirely without delicacy: They forbade him to display the

photos showing Miss Menken in her underwear. 94 With regard to the other photos,

though, they gave the photographer free rein, and he marketed them widely, causing an

international scandal.

        Dumas, perhaps under pressure from his family, sued. 95 But could any objection

be raised in law? This was a difficult question in the 1860s. The photographer had a

property right, the copyright in the photographs. Indeed, Dumas admitted in open court

94
   Alexandre Dumas c. Liébert, in Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire 13 (1867):
248.
95
   Such is the account, at least, of Wolf Makowitz, Mazeppa: The Lives, Loves and Legends of Adah Isaacs
Menken (New York: Stein and Day, 1982), 177-178. For a somewhat different account, see Bernard Falk,
The Naked Lady, or Storm over Adah (London: Hutchinson, 1934), 199-203.


                                                                                                        32
that he had sold the rights. 96 This was the mid-nineteenth century, and property rights

were generally regarded as something close to sacred in the legal cosmos of the day.

Nevertheless, adventurous legal thinkers were beginning to challenge the sanctity of

private property, 97 and the Dumas père court did the same. If Dumas did not have the

property right, was there any countervailing “right” that he could he claim? In a seminal

decision, the Paris appeals court answered that question by holding that he had a new

kind of “right to privacy,” which qualified the absolute claims of the law of property.

The court adopted Royer-Collard’s famous 1819 language about “private life”: Even if a

person had tacitly consented to the publication of embarrassing photos, that person must

retain the right to withdraw his consent. “The very publication” of such photos could put

such a person on notice “that he had forgotten to take care for his dignity, and remind him

that private life must be walled off in the interest of individua ls, and often in the interest

of good morals as well. . . .”98 The court accordingly rendered the photographer’s

property right effectively meaningless, ordering him to sell all rights in the photographs

to Dumas.

         Privacy, the court had effectively held, must sometimes be allowed to trump

property, at least where lascivious images were involved: One’s privacy, like other

aspects of one’s honor, was not a market commodity that could simply be definitively

sold. Any sale by a person who had momentarily “forgotten his dignity” had to remain

effectively voidable. In subsequent cases, involving some of the most famous artists of

the day, this sort of thinking began to gel into a developing “right to one’s image,” an

96
   Mankowitz, Mazeppa, 177.
97
   For this attitude, and the developing rebellion against it in this period, see Paolo Grossi, Altro Modo di
Possidere.
98
   Alexandre Dumas c. Liébert, in Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire 13 (1867):
250.


                                                                                                            33
important part of the French law of privacy, understood as an aspect of the law of artistic

and intellectual property. 99 One memorable 1877 dispute, for example, involved Ingres,

the brilliant history-painter and portraitist. The cult of nude figure drawing was its height

in mid- nineteenth-century France, and Ingres frequently found it difficult to capture the

ladies who sat for him unless he had first sketched them nude. Of course his society

clients would not agree to sit nude themselves, so Ingres hired models with appropriate

body types, and did nude sketches to which he added the recognizable heads of his

clients. It was a consequence of this louche artistic practice that a nude sketch of one of

his sitters, Mme. Moitessier, appeared among his effects at his death in 1868. When his

executor tried to sell the drawing, Monsieur Moitessier sued. 100 The court hearing the

case, like the Dumas père court, assigned the property right in the sketch to Ingres’

successors. But, again like the Dumas court, the court held that M. Moitessier had a

privacy right, a right to his wife’s “image,” which served to limit the artist’s property

right. The court held:

         that property itself recognizes limits established not only by positive law, but also

         by social norms [les convenances sociales]; that the first of these norms consists

         in the respect owed to the inviolability of the domestic hearth; that that




99
   See today Art. L. 122-4 of the Code de la propriété intellectuelle and the extensive reportage in the
Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire.
100
    The sketch, which had been done in the 1840s, was clearly intended as a study, and not for public
display. Nevertheless, the art dealer entrusted with the task of auctioning off Ingres’ works was determined
to sell it. Showing some delicacy of his own, the dealer first offered to sell the sketch to Mme. Moitessier’s
husband. But Monsieur Moitessier responded by filing suit, claiming that, as the owner of the portrait of
his wife, he was already the owner of any preparatory sketches. (His wife’s rights as such were not at issue
in nineteenth-century French law.) The issue was thus framed once again as one involving both rights to
property and rights to privacy.


                                                                                                          34
         inviolability would be offended if the image of the mère de famille could be

         surrendered to the publicity of a banal public auction . . . . 101

The court accordingly ordered the dealer in possession of the sketch to sell it to M.

Moitessier. The same basic analysis was confirmed in yet further high-profile cases over

the following decades, which established the principle that we have a “ ‘sacred and

inalienable right over ourselves,” and consequently over the reproduction of our

image.”102 The most famous of these, in 1900, was the lawsuit between Whistler and the

Baronet Eden, which Whistler himself chronicled in his little screed “The Baronet and the

Butterfly.”103

         In part, French privacy law was thus the product of the culture of the Paris art

world, with its nude models, defiant immoralism, and large artistic egos. The cases that

that grew out of that world generally concluded that there was a right to one’s “image”

that was distinct from, and in tension with, rights of property. But that was only one of

the strains in the making of French privacy law. The other had to do with the free press,

and it reflected exactly the same anxieties that had accompanied press liberalization in

1791 and 1819.




101
    Moitessier c. Féral, in Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire 23 (1878): 93-95 :
          Que la propriété elle -même reconnait des bornes établies non-seulement par la loi positive, mais
          par les convenances sociales; que la première de ces convenances consiste dans le respect dû à
          l’inviolabilité du foyer domestique; que cette inviolabilité serait atteinte si l’image de la mère de
          famille pouvait être livrée à la publicité d’enchères banales . . . .
For some further inforamtion, see Hans Naef, New Material on Ingres’ Portraits of Mme. Moitessier, The
Burlington Magazine 3 (March, 1969), 149-151 ; [Gary Tinterow], note in Portraits by Ingres : Images of
an Epoch (New York : Metropolitan Museum, 1999), 441.
102
    Comment by Vaunois to Alexandre Dumas c. Jacquet, in Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique
et Littéraire 33 (1888): 286 : “ ‘droit sacré et inalienable que nous avons sur nous-mêmes’ et, par suite, sur
la reproduction de notre figure. ”
103
    William Eden c. Whistler, Cour de Cassation, Civ. Rej. 14 mars 1900, in Recueil Dalloz 1900, 1: 500.
Whistler, Eden v. Whistler : The Baronet and the Butterfly. On this case, see François Rigaux, La
protection de la vie privée et des autres biens de la personnalité (Brussels : Bruylant, 1990), 288, 157-159.


                                                                                                            35
        Indeed, it was in the tradition of uneasiness about the free press that privacy

received its first formal statutory protection of the nienteenth century, in 1868, during the

waning years of Napoleon III’s imperial regime. Over the course of the 1860s, the period

of the so-called “Liberal Empire,” Napoleon III granted increasing civil rights in France.

This included the creation of a new press policy in 1868, which, with some limitations,

allowed effective freedom of the press. The French press, meanwhile, had been

experiencing a small renaissance of critical and satirical reportage, as well as a

renaissance of French caricature in the work of artists like Daumier. 104 Attitudes had not

changed since 1819, though, and the new law aimed to guarantee that freedom of the

press would not open the door to insulting intrusions into the lives of respectable people.

Thus it carefully provided that, though the press was in principle free, every publication

in a periodical of “a fact of private life” was a criminal offense, a punishable

contravention, just as other insults were contraventions. An interpretive circular of the

Ministry of Justice added that while there was of course room for criticism of artists and

other public figures, even the latter were (as they would continue to be) protected against

“defamation and insult.” Concerns about the care of one’s dignity thus continued to

shadow press liberalization, just as they had already done in 1791.

        With the fall of Napoleon III, the climate certainly changed, and when the Third

Republic turned to the regulation of the press, in 1881, its new statute said nothing about

“privacy” as such. 105 Neverthless, courts continued to insist on the sacred character of



104
    See generally Roger Bellet, Presse et Journalisme sous le Second Empire (Paris: Armand Colin, 1967),
18-24 (law of 1868) and passim.
105
    Discussion in Contamine-Raynaud, Le secret de la vie privée, in L’Information en droit privé (Paris:
LGDH, 1978), 406. Contemporary commentary did worry over protecting the private life of the President
of the Republic, though. See J. Gahier, La Diffamation et la Loi du 29 Juillet 1881 (Paris : Librairie
Générale de Jurisprudence, 1893), 80.


                                                                                                      36
“la vie privée”—for example, in forbidding a writer to base a novel on events revealed in

the course of a criminal trial. 106 All told, France was, by the 1870s and 1880s, the home

of a very visible law of the protection of privacy. 107 The reigning French view was

captured by a characteristic account that appeared in 1888, two years before the

publication of Warren and Brandeis’ “Right to Privacy.” In that year, Émile Beaussire,

an eminent legal philosopher of the day, summarized several decades of French in the

following way. The right to privacy was to be ranked among the rights to honor more

broadly. This of course raised doubts about its place in the law. For understandably,

Beaussire wrote, people viewed their “honor” as something that should be preserved

through dueling, not through law: “When my honor is attacked, I gain nothing by filing

suit against my calumniators.”108 Nevertheless, in the modern world, even persons of

honor had to have recourse to the law, and the law had to occupy itself with persons of

honor. This was the right context for understanding the right to privacy: For violations

of “privacy” involved nothing other than the revelation of “infamous secrets” which

could destroy the honor of such persons as a respected “père de famille.”109 And outside

the most exceptional circumstances, the law could not allow such violations:

        Private honor, whatever its value per se and whatever its source, must be

        protected from all offenses. People have certainly railed against the excesses of

        the maxim “private life must be walled off” . . . [Nevertheless], the prying and

        insults of the world may be . . . more or less innocent or more culpable : no matter

106
    Le Figaro c. Chaperon, Annales de la Propriété Industrielle, Artistique et Littéraire 45 (1899), 61-65.
107
    Not all French commentators approved of this. As one leading scholar argued, for example, French law
was beginning to trench too drastically on the work of artists. The “right to one’s image,” he thought,
should not extend beyond the traditional protection against “insult and defamation.” Vaunois, Liberté du
portrait, 6.
108
    Émile Beaussire, Les Principes du Droit (Paris: Alcan, 1888), 369: “Quand mon honneur est attaqué, je
ne gagne rien à poursuivre en justice mes calomniateurs.”
109
    Beaussire, Principes du Droit, 372.


                                                                                                        37
         what, they violate the law when they tend to destroy, through public revelation . . .

         honor [considération] justly or unjustly acquired . . . . 110

Similar accounts of the right to privacy as a right to “honor” made their way into other

textbook accounts by the end of the nineteenth century as well, 111 and the importance of

the protection of “honorable” privacy was something close to orthodoxy in France by the

1890s.



                                                      V

         Similar developments were underway, by the late nineteenth century, in Germany.

There were important differences, though. The world of the developing German law of

privacy was not the overheated world of Paris high art, with its nude models and

lascivious photos. Instead it was the heady world of the German philosophy of free will.

Moreover, German privacy law developed more slowly than French law, not really

establishing itself before the middle of the twentieth century. And when German privacy

law did establish itself, it was in connection with the painful experience of Nazism.

         The German tradition of “privacy” protections is perhaps easiest to understand if

we emphasize one point: German privacy law grew in large part out of an effort to create

a richer German alternative to western ideas of liberty. The protection of “privacy,” in

the German tradition, is regarded as an aspect of the protection of one of the most

baffling of German juristic creations: “personality.” “Personality” is a characteristically

110
    Beaussire, Principes du Droit, 377-378.
          [L]’honneur privée, quelle que soit la valeur en lui-même et dans son origine, doit être à l’abri de
          toute atteinte. On a pu railler ce qu’il y’a d’excessif dans la maxime que “la vie privée doit être
          murée” . . . [Nevertheless], les curiosités et les médisances du monde peuvent être . . . plus ou
          moins innocentes ou plus ou moin blâmables : elles violent le droit quand elles tendent à détruire
          par une révélvation publique . . . une considération justement ou même injustement acquise . . .
For his identification of “honneur” and “considération,” see id. 377.
111
    E.g. A. Boistel, Cours de Philosophie de Droit (Paris: Fontemoing, 1899), 1: 243-247.


                                                                                                            38
dense concept, with roots in the philosophies of Kant, Humboldt and Hegel. As any

account of German law will tell you, the German law of “personality” is a law of

freedom—the law of the “Inner Space, in which [humans] develop freely and self-

responsibly their personalities.”112 Any account will also tell you that this law of

freedom has especially flourished since the 1950s, when Germans applied the lessons

they had learned from the Nazi disaster. 113 Any standard account will tell you these

things—but if you are the average American lawyer, you can be forgiven for not finding

them easy to grasp. What is the “Inner Space”? How does guaranteeing the freedom of

the “Inner Space” represent an antidote to Nazism?

        To get a firmer handle on these difficult, and occasionally comical, concepts, we

must dig deeper into German intellectual history, and even into German theology.

“Personality” is indeed a concept that Germans have often invoked where Americans

would invoke “liberty,” and like “liberty” it does invoke a kind of freedom. But from the

beginning it was never quite the same as American freedom. Where Americans often

think of “freedom” as opposed primarily to tyranny, nineteenth-century Germans often

thought of “freedom” as opposed primarily to determinism. To be free was, in the first

instance, not to be free from government control, nor to be free to engage in market

transactions. Instead, to be free was to exercise free will; and the defining characteristic

of creatures with free will was that they were unpredictably individual, creatures whom

no science of mechanics or biology could ever capture in their full richness. For

Germans who thought of things in this way, the purpose of “freedom” was to allow each


112
   Eberle, Dignity and Liberty, 85, quoting and discussing the German Census case, 27 BVerfGe 1 (1969)
113
    Id., 7; for a standard post-war German account: Ernst von Caemmerer, Wandlungen des Deliktsrechts,
in Caemmerer, Ernst Friesenhahn and Richard Lange, eds. Hundert Jahre Deutsches Rechtsleben
(Karlsruhe: Müller, 1960), 104-105.


                                                                                                    39
individual fully to realize his potential as an individual: to give full expression to his

peculiar capacities and powers.

        This idea of “free” self-realization is as old as Leibniz, or even Erasmus. Indeed,

its sources lie unmistakably in Christian Humanism. 114 But in its modern form, it is an

idea that was especially championed by Wilhelm von Humboldt, in the early nineteenth-

century. 115 The early nineteenth century was a period when Germans were struggling

with the economic liberalism of Adam Smith, trying to learn the lessons of Smith while

preserving some role for a managed economy, as well as some role for ideals of freedom

that were not defined by the market. 116 For writers of the period like Humboldt, it

seemed essential to insist that human flourishing required the pursuit of individual

fulfillment in forms the market could not provide. The paradigmatic “free” actor, for such

German philosophers, was commonly the artist more than the consumer. The German

philosophical tradition on the subject of “freedom” was thus close in spirit to the German

tradition of so-called “national” economics, a school critical of free trade and in many

ways of the free market more broadly. That does not mean that German philosophers (or

German economists) did not believe in the freedom to buy and sell, of course. It means

only that the German tradition always put less of an emphasis on consumer sovereignty,

and more of an emphasis on unfettered creation, than the Anglo-American tradition did—

and most especially on the unfettered creation of the self, on the fashioning of one’s

image and the realization of one’s potentialities. This approach to the problem of

freedom, which had some obvious sources in Protestant theology, formed a fundamental

114
    [For an account, see C. Augustijn, Erasmus en de Reformatie (Amsterdam, 1962), 13-16.]
115
    See the account of Leonard Krieger, The German Idea of Freedom: History of a Political Tradition from
the Reformation to 1871 (Chicago: University of Chicdago Press, 1957), 166-169.
116
    E.g. Laurence Dickey, Hegel: Religion, Economis and the Politics of Spirit, 1770-1807 (Cambridge:
Cambridge U. Press, 1987), 194-197.


                                                                                                      40
part of what Leonard Krieger, writing in the wake of the Nazi experience, famously

called “The German Idea of Freedom” 117 : an idea different from western ideas of

“liberty,” an idea focused much more on inward self-realization, and consequently much

more open to the exercise of state power and the regulation of the market.

           Now these are philosophical ideas that are both vague and grandiose, and they are

not obviously easy to translate into law. Certainly, they do not seem as easy to translate

into law as the ideas of an Adam Smith. Nevertheless, they were embraced by German

jurists of the second half of the nineteenth century, and particularly of the 1880s. This

was the period when German public policy began to turn away from Smithian laissez-

faire ideas, endorsing social insurance, cartelization, and protectionist policies. It was

also the period when German philosophers turned strongly toward Neo-Kantianism, a

philosophical style fascinated with the tension between free will and determinism. It was

during this same period that German lawyers began to turn away from crass western ideas

of personal liberty, endorsing the theory of “personality” as the true theory of freedom.

Inspired by both Kant and Hegel, a number of leading legal thinkers set out to create a

German law that would match the German philosophy of “personality” in depth and

subtlety. In particular, they developed a German tradition that treated the protection of

privacy simply as one aspect of the protection of “personality” more broadly: Privacy,

for Germans, become one part of “free self-realization.”

           Like their French predecessors of several decades earlier, the German jurists of

the 1880s and after perceived their problem as a problem of honor, to be dealt with

through the law of “insult,” in coordination with the law of artistic property. German

society, like French society of the same period, was strongly attached to norms of
117
      Krieger, The German Idea of Freedom.


                                                                                              41
respectability and honor, notably as asserted through dueling. It was also a society in

which the law of “insult” played a correspondingly large role in legal thinking. 118 But the

French way of talking about the problem was not very satisfactory to German scholars.

When French authors like Royer-Collard or Beaussire spoke of “insults,” they based their

arguments on clumsily drafted modern statutes and vague “social norms.” German

scholars preferred a more solid juristic foundation, with citations to authoritative ancient

texts and explorations of basic problems in legal philosophy. Rather than talking about

ill-defined “social norms,” German jurists accordingly embarked on an impressive

reinterpretation of one of the most confusing bodies of traditional law: the ancient Roman

law of insult, which they combined with the law of artistic property to create a new body

of “personality” law. This German reinterpretation of the ancient law of insult is one of

the finest examples of nineteenth-century juristic virtuosity, and once upon a time one of

the most famous. It deserves to be described, even if only briefly, not least because it

exercised an important influence on American scholars like Warren and Brandeis.

        Let us then follow nineteenth-century German reasoning. The ancient Roman law

of insult was by no means easy to use as a basis for a modern law of “personality.” The

ancient Roman texts were extremely muddy. In very early Roman law, which produced a

cryptic statute on the matter, the law of “insult”—injuria—seemed to cover only certain

injuries to a person’s possessions. In addition, there were early Roman sanctions against

casting spells, engaging in certain now mysterious forms of public insults, and inflicting

grave bodily injury. 119 Very gradually, over the long course of Roman history, this early

grabbag of legal prohibitions also came to cover various kinds of disrespectful and

118
   Whitman, Enforcing Civility and Respect, 1313-1332.
119
   Summary in Heinrich Honsell, Theo Mayer-Maly and Walter Selb, Römisches Recht, 4th ed. (Berlin:
Springer, 1987), 368-369.


                                                                                                     42
insulting speech and treatment. In particular, as the confusing texts of the Digest of

Justinian seem to show, it came to protect respectable women against lewd comments,

and to guarantee to a certain extent that low-status persons show proper deference to their

betters, as well as that high-status persons not insult their inferiors. 120 A variety of other

interferences with the rights of other persons also apparently came to be considered

“injuria.”121 Nowhere did the Roman jurists explain how they thought that physical

“injuries” to persons and their possessions were related to verbal “injuries” directed at

respectable women by mashers and the like, or give any account of what social purposes,

if any, the Roman law of “injuries” was thought to serve.

        This was not easy stuff to work with, but German scholars went to work with a

will. In particular, they worked in the Hegelian tradition. Hegelian legal historians

brought a characteristic approach to the understanding of legal evolution—an approach

founded on Hegel’s account of the history of punishment. According to the Hegelian

view, the history of punishment was one in which the primitive talionic rule “eye for an

eye, tooth for a tooth,” had gradually given way to more sophisticated concepts of

proportionality. This was an evolution, as Hegelians saw it, in which a naïve view of the

world obsessed with things—eyes and teeth—had gradually evolved into a view of the

world capable of grasping larger immaterial values.

        The creators of the German law of “personality” interpreted the development of

the ancient Roman law of insult in the same way—as an evolution of the “spirit” of




120
    For a convenient collection of translated texts, see Bruce W. Frier, A Casebook on the Roman Law of
Delict (Atlanta: Scholars Press, 1989), 3-6, 177-200.
121
    Rudolf von Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, in Gesammelte Aufsätze (Jena:
Fischer, 1886), 3: 234-235.


                                                                                                      43
Roman law, as Rudolf von Jhering, the most brilliant of German law professors, 122 called

it, from the material to the immaterial. The argument rans as follows. Honor had always

been at stake in the law of insult, even in the earliest periods. But at first, the Romans,

still obsessed with things, had thought that the law could only monetizable rights, mere

material rights. But as sensibilites about honor grew richer and deeper, these early legal

protections gradually ripened, until the law grew to cover all aspects of our honor,

protecting us also against verbal insults and other shows of disrespect. 123 The evolution

of the law of honor, like the evolution of the law of punishment, was thus an evolution in

the “spirit of the times”—one in which primitive protections for merely monetizable

interests had gradually matured into sophisticated protections for “non-economic”

interests. 124 That slow evolution, from the material to the immaterial, was moreover

continuing in the modern world: The modern world was now producing what Jhering

called, in a famous 1885 article, the law of “insulting tortious injuries.” In particular,

modern protections were now evolving beyond protections against immaterial verbal

insults, to include the protection of such immaterial goods as one’s name 125 and one’s

photographed image, 126 one’s control of one’s correspondence, 127 as well as access to

modern amenities such as the telegraph and the tram. 128




122
    Jhering, Der Geist des römischen Rechts auf den verschiedenen Stufen seiner Entwicklung, 5th ed.
(Leipzig: Breitkopf und Härtel, 1891-1906).
123
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 235.
124
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 236.
125
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 390-396.
126
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 383-384, 389-390.
127
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 385-389
128
    Jhering, Rechtsschutz gegen injuriöse Rechtsverletzungen, 344-345.


                                                                                                       44
         Jhering was one of a number of German scholars to make this sort of argument,

some relying on ancient Roman law, some drawing on Germanic sources. 129 This

Hegelianized law of insult was one main strand in the new German law of personality.

The other was the law of Urheberrecht, creator’s rights. The rights of an artistic or

intellectual creator, in German law, were partly rights of copyright. But they also were

beginning to extend beyond mere copyright to include a broader right to control the use

of one’s work, in the name of protecting one’s reputation as an artist—what in

continental law is today called “droit moral de l’auteur.”130 For German scholars who

thought of “personality” as the right to free self- creation, the law of artistic and

intellectual property was a natural source, to be exploited alongside the law of insult. 131

After all, “personality” was precisely about self-creation. And of course, protection of

the creative rights of the artist, a nineteenth-century innovation, was a classic example of

the new modern sensitivity to immaterial interests.

         The law of insult, united with the law of artistic creation, thus made for what

seemed to Germans a solid foundation for a law of personality. The idea that

“personality” was really about an amalgam of personal honor and artist’s rights was



129
    For a parallel effort focused more on “Germanic” sources, see Otto von Gierke, Deutsches Privatrecht
(München/Leipzig: Duncker & Humblot, 1917), 3: 958-963.
130
    For this concept, codified in Art. 121-1 of the Code de la Propriété Intellectuelle, see Russell J. DaSilva,
Droit Moral and the Amoral Copyright: A Comparison of Artists' Rights in France and the United States,
28 BULL. COPYRIGHT SOC'Y 1 (1980); Jill R. Applebaum, The Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990: An
Analysis based on the French Droit Moral, 8 Am. U. J. Int’l. L. & Pol’y 191 (1992).
131
    Especially Gierke, Deutsches Privatrecht (Leipzig: Duncker & Humblot, 1895), 1: 748-848, and
especially 764: “Das Urheberrecht ist . . . in seinem ganzen Umfange als ein aus geistiger Schöpfung
fliessendes Persönlichkeitsrecht zu konstruiren.” Gierke drew on Josef Kohler, Das Autorrecht. Eine
civilistische Abhandlung (Jena: Fischer, 1880). Kohler was however critical of Gierke’s approach. See
Kohler, Zur Konstruktion des Urheberrechts, Archiv für Bügerliches Recht 10 (1895): 246-258. There
was, moreover, much dispute during the nineteenth century over whether rights in works of art should be
understood as an aspect of the protection of “personality” or not. For a rapid survey of theories pre-dating
the triumph of the “personality” analysis, see A. Osterrieth, Das Urheberrecht an Werken der bildenden
Künste und der Photographie, 2d. ed., ed. Bruno Marwitz (Berlin: Heymann, 1929), 5-7.


                                                                                                             45
popularized beginning in the late 1870s by an influential writer named Karl Gareis. 132

Related approaches were developed in particular by the most deeply learned and

intellectually adventurous of turn-of-the-century legal thinkers, Josef Kohler. 133 Some

important cases came into this German line of thinking as well: in particular, there was a

case that prohibited the distribution of photographs of Bismarck on his deathbed. 134 As

always, in the continental tradition, the hunger of the press for images of highly placed

persons drove the law onward.

        These were very influential ideas in the developing German social order of the

late nineteenth century. By the early twentieth century, German law had incorporated a

wide variety of “personality” rights into its statutory schemes. The scandal over

Bismarck’s deathbed photos led, in 1907, to the introduction of statutory protections for

one’s image, as part of a larger scheme regulating rights in works of art. 135 Meanwhile

the German Civil Code, which went into force in 1900, included protections against the

appropriation of one’s name, 136 and the impairment of one’s credit, 137 alongside

protections for life, body, health and liberty. 138 The law on unfair competition of 1909


132
    For Gareis, see Dieter Leuze, Die Entwicklung des Persönlichkeitsrechts im 19. Jahrhundert (Bielefeld:
Gieseking, 1962), 93-103.
133
    See Kohler, Das Autorrecht: Eine zivilistische Abhandlung (Jena: Fischer, 1880), 123-159, and 126 for
use of “Persönlichkeit.” On Kohler, see further Leuze, Entwicklung des Personlichkeitsrechts, 103-111. In
his mature reflections, Kohler in effect rejected both Roman and Germanic approaches in ways that deserve
more discussion than I can give them here. See e.g. his Das Eigenbild im Recht (Berlin: Guttentag, 1903).
134
    The famous Bismarck case was preceded by a couple of other photography cases, involving a woman in
a bathing suit and a photograph used to advertise a hair dye. It was the Bismarck matter that really caught
the public imagination in Germany. See Osterrieth, Urheberrecht, 161, describing the origns of the
protections for one’s image contained in §§ 22- 24 KUG. [NB: O. also mentions protections for portraits
and portrait-busts —but just for Besteller, not for Abgebildete.]
135
    Not protecting the image, the official government draft for this law explained, would not do justice to
“the respect which is owed to the personality.” Regierungsvorlage to §§ 22-24 KUG, reproduced in
Osterrieth, Urheberrecht, 161. The image needed to be protected in a way that would “leave freedom of
movement for the respectable press, without leaving justifiable private interests without protection.” Id.,
cited in Osterrieth,Urheberrecht, 163.
136
    §12 BGB.
137
    §824 BGB.
138
    §823 BGB.


                                                                                                        46
included a characteristically German provision protecting enterprises against untrue

statements that harmed their operations or their credit, 139 and the Bismarck-era law on

freedom of the press granted a right to respond. 140 Perhaps most importantly, the

Criminal Code included its prohibition on insults. 141 All of this added up to protections

that were hardly insignificant by the eve of the First World War. The Weimar era saw a

number of further important cases, of which the most famous involved (once again)

royalty. This was a successful suit brought by ex-Kaiser Wilhelm over a stage play

portraying him. 142

        In short, there were plenty of “personality” protections in German law by the

early part of the twentieth century. Nevertheless the Civil Code itself, which went into

force in 1900, did not endorse an unbounded right of “personality”143 —much to the

dismay of many legal scholars. Indeed, it is an important part of German legal lore that

“personality” was neglected in the Civil Code. This peculiarly German form of freedom,

German lore tells us, was not embraced by the Code, which instead endorsed crassly

market-oriented values. 144 The German literature routinely declares that “personality”

was only fully protected in the 1950s, as a consequence of the new commitment to

freedom and dignity that took hold in the wake of Nazism. Indeed, the protection of


139
    §14 UWG.
140
    §11 RPG.
141
    §185 StGB. For these provisions as forerunners of developed German Persönlichkeitsrecht, see Ernst
von Caemmerer, Hundert Jahre Deutsches Rechtsleben (Karlsruhe: Müller, 1960), 2:102-103.
142
    For the leading cases of the 1920s, which tended to involve figures like the Countess Zeppelin and
especially members of the Hohenzollern family, see the summary in Alexander Elster, Urheber- und
Erfinder, Warenzeichen- und Wettbewerbsrecht, 2d ed. (Berlin/Leipzig: de Gruyter, 1928), 191-192.
Royalty were not the only ones protected, though. For a case involving a typist, episodes from whose life
were lifted by a novelist, see Nichtanerkennung des allgemeinen Persönlichkeitsrechts, Ufita (Archiv für
Urheber-, Film-, Funk- und Theaterrecht 4 (1930), 319-323. One is tempted to think of this case as
foreshadowing the social extension of protections during the Nazi period.
143
    [Decisively interpreted in RGZ 51, 373.]
144
    For a sensitive presentation of this position, see Helmut Coing, Zur Entwicklung des zivilrechtlichen
Presönlichkeitsschutzes, Juristenzeitung 1958, 559.


                                                                                                        47
“personality” is widely presented as the core institution of a German private law shaped

by the reaction against Nazism—“one of the most essential achievements,” as a standard

textbook will say, “of the post-war period.”145

        This is not however correct. With this we come to a delicate point, which I have

touched on before and now must touch on again. Here as elsewhere contemporary

German institutions of dignity have a Nazi history. In point of fact, the Nazis too were

committed to the protection of “personality.” 146 This German form of freedom was one

that appealed to the Nazis just as it appealed to the later makers of the twentieth-century

social welfare state. The story is entirely typical of the history I have recounted

elsewhere. The Nazi regime, like other fascist regimes, made great efforts to proclaim

the importance of “honor”—and most especially the importance of the honor of low-

status persons, as long as they were racially German. This led the regime to insist on

norms of respect for workers in the workplace, and in everyday life as well. 147 In just the

same way, it led the regime to insist that all Germans, whatever their social station, had a

right to the protection of their “personality.” Otto Palandt’s standard commentary to the

Civil Code explained it this way in the early 1940s:



145
    Claus Ahrens, Personlichkeitsrecht und Freiheit der Medienberichterstattung (Berlin: Schmidt, 2002),
28. This commonplace can now be found in almost any comparative law text. See e.g. Ugo Mattei,
Comparative Law and Economics (Ann Arbor: U. Michigan Press, 1998), 115-116. For a typical accountof
constitutional development after the war, see Hans D. Jarass, Die Entwicklung des allgemeinen
Persönlichkeitsrechts in der Rechtsprechung des Bundesverfassungsgerichts, in Hans-Uwe Erichsen,
Helmut Kollhosser and Jürgen Welp, eds., Recht der Persönlichkeit (Berlin: Duncker und Humblot, 1996),
89-103.
146
    This remains an unwritten chapter of German legal history, outside a brief by valuable discussion by
Stefan Gottwald, Das allgemeine Persönlichkeitsrecht. Ein zeitgeschichtliches Erklärungsmodell (Berlin :
Nomos, 1996), 47-58. Broadly speaking, Nazi writers tended to promise protection of the “Ehre” of
ordinary Germans as a kind of exchange for their submission to the demands of the “folk community.” See
for example J. W. Hedemann, Das Volksgesetzbuch der Deutschen. Ein Bericht (München/Berlin: Beck,
1941), 37.
147
    Whitman, Enforcing Civility and Respect, 1327-1330; Whitman, From Fascist ‘Honour’ to European
‘Dignity’.


                                                                                                     48
        The “right of personality” did not receive any definitive regulation in the Civil

        Code. Life, body, health and freedom are protected §823 I, and so is the right to

        one’s name . . . . A general right of personality is alien to the Civil Code.

        However, there is nothing in the Code that excludes it. National socialist legal

        feeling [Nat[ional]-soz[ialistisches] Rechtsempfinden] regards the Volk-comrade

        as a member of the Volk community, who fulfils the demands of his legal position

        in the service of the Volk community, and who as such has a claim that the legal

        position that has been conferred upon him be safeguarded and protected against

        attacks of any kind. In this sense, it can be said that the Volk-comrade has a

        general right of personality that ought to be recognized, one whose content

        extends beyond the above- mentioned personality interests listed in the Code,

        including in particular a right to join in the common labor of the community and a

        right to recognition, respect and honor. . . . 148

The draft Nazi Civil Code, never enacted, was even more assertive in its insistence on a

universal German right to protection of “personality.”149 The Nazis presented themselves

as protecting honor to its fullest extent, in return for the sacrifices demanded of the

German Volk. Of course the insistence on honor for Germans was paired with an


148
    Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, 6th ed.,ed. Otto Palandt (Munich: Beck, 1944), 4 (=Einführung vor §1, Abs.
2.):
          Das “Recht der Persönlichkeit” hat im BGB keine abschlieβende Regelung gefunden. Leben,
          Körper, Gesundheit und Freiheit werden durch §823 I geschützt, ebenso das Namensrecht . . . .
          Ein allgemein[es] Persönlichkeitsrecht ist dem BGB fremd, RG 51, 376. Es ist aber durch keine
          Bestimmung ausgeschlossen. Nat[ional]-soz[ialistisches] Rechtsempfinden sieht im
          Volksgenossen ein Glied der Volksgemeinschaft, das seine Rechtsstellung in deren Dienste
          auszfüllen hat und als solches Anspruch darauf hat, daβ die ihm übertragene Rechtsstellung
          gewährleistet und gegen Angriffe jeder Art geschützt werde. In diesem Sinne dürfte heute ein
          allgemein[es] Persönlichkeitsrecht des Volksgenossen anzuerkennen sein (anders noch RG 113,
          414, RAG, 33, 1911), dessen Inhalt über den Schutz der im Gesetz aufgeführten obengenannten
          Persönlichkeitsgüter hinausgeht, und insbes. ein Recht auf Mitarbeit im Rahmen der Gemeinschaft
          und auf Anerkennung, Achtung und Ehre . . . .
149
     Volksgesetzbuch, Book I, Abschnitt 1, §§ 1-23.


                                                                                                     49
insistence on the dishonor of others—of persons who were “sick or foreign.”150 Like all

Nazi extensions of “honor” to the lower orders, this too belonged to the politics of the

most vicious kind of exclusion. It is for that very reason that the rare historian who

deigns even to talk about the Nazi period insists that there is no connection between Nazi

ideas and the doctrines of the post-war period. 151 Nevertheless, it is much too simple to

dismiss the Nazi experience as as a rejction of the traditions of German “personality”

law—whether we are talking about the history of legal doctrine, or about the social

history of the law. As a matter of doctrine, the Nazis did endorse the general right of

personality. As a matter of social history, the Nazis did guarantee, here as els ewhere, the

claim to honor of low-status Germans. Ordinary Germans who would come to pride

themselves on their “dignity” in the 1950s and 1960s, were Germans who had been

taught to pride themselves on their “honor” twenty years earlier.

        The consequence, painful as it is to acknowledge it, is that Nazi law directly pre-

figured the law of post-war Germany. By the 1950s and 1960s, to be sure, the standard

commentary to the Civil Code was no longer grounding the “general right of personality”

in “national-socialist legal feeling” and the requirement that the “Volk-comrade” work for

and with the community, as it had done in the 1940s. Instead it was (rather reluctantly)

grounding it in the constitutional right to “free self-realization.”152 But in both eras, the



150
     Thus Heinz Hermann, Das allgemeine Persönlichkeitsrecht (Diss. Rostock, 1935), last page.
151
     Hans Hattenhauer, “Person”—Zur Geschichte eines Begriffs, Juristische Schulung 22 (1982), 410.
152
     For the Palandt commentary’s reluctantly slow acceptance of the new doctrine on Persönlichkeitsschutz,
compare Palandt, ed., Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, 17th ed. (Munich, 1957), § 823 6 (h) (p. 680) (new
doctrine goes too far), with Palandt et al., ed., Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, 28th ed. (Munich, 1969), § 823 6
(i) (accepting the « herrschende Meinung ») (p. 702). [Note to eds : « h.M. » means « herrschende
Meinung »--i.e. the accepted general opinion of scholars. We don’t have a doctrine like that in US law.
How should we cite it ?—JW]. For an important revisionist account of this period, arguing that the rise of
the new doctrine was intended to protect ex-Nazis, see Gottwald, Das allgemeine Persönlichkeitsrecht, 59-
124.


                                                                                                        50
commentary talked a lot about “honor,”153 and the net result was that the German civil

law acknowledged a “general personality right” in both eras. In point of fact, the

protection of personality is not a product of post-war reforms, as Palandt himself, and

many others, must have known perfectly well during the 1950s. 154 It has grown in

tandem with the German social welfare state, and the downward social extension of a

claim to honor, throughout the twentieth century.

        Be that as it may, the protection of personality has indeed especially flourished

since the 1950s. The Basic Law of 1949 did embrace the German tradition of

“personality” protection in its famous Article II, which guarantees that “Every person has

the right to free development of his personality, insofar as he does not injure the rights of

others . . . .” This was a forceful restatement of the “German idea of freedom.” In

subsequent years, Article II has indeed come to stand at the foundation of the extensive

German protection of privacy, among other “personality” interests. A number of cases of

the 1950s established the principle that the Civil Code had to be understood in light of

this constitutional provision, as guaranteeing a right to the protection of “personality.”

The post-war law of personality is now a central institution of German dignity in the

(perhaps endangered) world of the German market socialism.



                                                    V

        Indeed, the old traditions remained strong down to the present post-war day, in

both Germany and France. Post-war developments were more tentative in France than in

Germany. Protections for “privacy” were proclaimed by DeGaulle’s provisional

153
   E.g. Palandt, BGB, 7th ed, Einf. Vor § 1, para. 2 (p. 8); BGB, 28th ed., § 823 6 (i) (p. 702).
154
   Palandt himself, it should be noted, died in 1951. See Palandts langer Schatten, at http://www.vfh-
hessen.de/ftp/Spectrum/2003-1-Palandt-Slapnicar.pdf.


                                                                                                         51
government shortly before D-Day, presumably in the effort to win over former

collaborators. 155 Nevertheless, lasting change had to wait until 1970, when the Civil

Code was amended to introduce new protections. 156 Be that as it may, today protections

for privacy are a proud part of the law in both countries—and in both, they have retained

their nineteenth-century coloration. 157 To be sure, the law of privacy in both countries is

today regarded as distinct from the law of insult. 158 Nevertheless, traditional nineteenth-

century values, with their honor-oriented, suspicious attitude toward the free press and

the free market, have continued to make themselves felt, even in a world in which the

privacy of ordinary folks is vigorously protected.

        The continental chariness about the free market shows, for example, in the

treatment of consumer credit reporting and other consumer data. Credit reporting is an

especially revealing example. Here the basic continental rules grow out of longstanding

continental traditions. Historically, as a matter of etiquette, one’s financial affairs were

very much one’s own affairs. One did not talk about money matters unless absolutely

necessary: Indeed, money, as a standard etiquette guide will tell you, is simply “a taboo

subject” among respectable people. 159 The only persons whose finances were routinely

revealed to the public were insolvents and bankrupts. That attitude has had a notable

influence on European privacy law—most notably in the traditional French rule that




155
    Ordonnance du 6 mai 1944, in Gazette du Palais 1944, vol. 2, p. 292, amending the Loi du 29 Juillet
1881. For the limited impact on post-war law, see the discussion of Robert Badinter, Le droit au respect de
de la vie privée in La Semaine Juridique (=Juriclasseur Périodique) 1968, I: 2136, paragraph 10.
Nevertheless, it is striking how infrequently this ordonnance is mentioned in the literature.
156
    Art. 9, Code Civil.
157
    For the continuing vigor of the law of insult in France, see Lamberterie and Strubel, L’Image
Manipulée, 356.
158
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 17-18.
159
    Le Bras, Guide du Savoir-Vivre, 66.


                                                                                                        52
made it a per se violation of “privacy” rights to reveal another person’s salary. 160

(Indeed, a French text on the law of privacy will still casually list “love, sex and

earnings” as the three areas of life self-evidently in need of privacy protections. 161 ) The

same attitude has had an influence on the continental law of credit reporting. In France in

particular, consumer credit reports are provided only by official sources, and they are

provided only in the case of persons experiencing serious financial difficulty. They offer,

as it were, only a watch list of persons who are proven credit risks. Anything else, to the

French mind, would represent a intrusion into financial privacy. 162 One’s financial

information is information “of a personal character,” over which one must have control

just as one must have control over one’s image. 163 German norms are a little more



160
     This rule has been shaken somewhat in recent years. See Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 93-98;
Beignier, Droit de la Personnalité, 57-58.
161
     Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 15.
162
    [This footnote is excerpted from a memo prepared for me by Agnès Dunogué, my research assistant.] In
France, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) is the administrative agency
charged with protecting individuals’ privacy, particularly in the context of computers and data processing,
and ensuring that the relevant laws are enforced. (See http://www.cnil.fr/). Financial institutions and
specialized credit providers are subject to the CNIL’s rules and supervision with regard to data processing.
The creation and sharing of files containing what is referred to as “positive” and “nominative” data about
consumers (i.e., personally identifiable information detailing account activity) is prohibited. Therefore,
credit bureaus and credit reporting (as they are known in the United States) do not currently exist in France.
In order to collect and process personal data, approval from the CNIL must be obtained (in the form of
what is referred to as a “récépissé”). (See “Délibération n° 87-025 du 10.02.1987 fixant le règlement
intérieur de la Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (Journal officiel du 18 mars 1987),”
which has since been amended three times, and is available on the CNIL’s website, through the search
engine).
However, what do exist in France are accessible files containing “negative” credit information, that is,
information about consumers who have defaulted on their payments. The Banque de France maintains a
“Fichier National des Incidents de Remboursement des Crédits aux Particuliers” (FICP). Credit providers
(such as banks or specialized companies) populate this database with information about individuals who
have defaulted on credit payments (according to different rules depending on the type of credit account –
e.g., when a payment is not made for over 90 days after the due date, for accounts that are not on a monthly
payment plan). (For more information, see http://www.banque-
france.fr/banque_de_france/fr/recherche/main_document01.htm?x=1&SpiDBName=bdfr&SpiGridName=b
dfr&SpiDBInfo=1&SpiDocIdx=0&SpiCtxCmp=33314&query=FICP). This database is accessible by all
credit institutions established in France. If an individual is in the FICP, h/she will likely not be given credit
again. The purpose of this database is to fight against “surendettement” (excessive debt).
163
    See, e.g., Sandra de Faultrier-Travers, Aspects Juridiques de l’Information (Paris: ESF, 1991), at 53-55
(financial information is information “à caractère personnel”), a section following 51-53 (right to one’s
image).


                                                                                                              53
forgiving: Credit-reporting is provided, not by government agencies, but by industry

collectives known as “Schufas.” Even in Germany, though, consumers must sign a

contractual clause expressly permitting lenders to share data about them; and before any

data is shared, the law requires a careful balancing of the privacy interest of consumers

against the interests of financial entities, theoretically in every individual case. As in

France, moreover, German reporting focuses on classic sorts of negative information

associated with insolvency and default. 164 European credit reporting is thus the direct

descendant of the old European law of bankruptcy: It is law that stigmatizes the

dishonorable failure to pay one’s debts, not law that allows merchants to pry into the

buying habits of honorable, solvent persons. Certainly anything like the American

practice of compiling an accessible record of any individual’s credit history seems like a

dangerous exposure of private life to most Europeans.

         All very continental—but at what cost? As any American will recognize, it

inevitably means that consumer credit is less easily available in continental Europe than it

is the United States. Indeed, these “privacy” norms must contribute significantly to the

making of a continental world in which credit cards have made much slower progress

than they have in the U.S.—a system which is in general not founded on the system of

consumer credit. It may be difficult for Americans to understand why continental

Europeans should resist our well-developed credit-reporting practices. In the long run,

164
    See generally Hans-Jürgen Schaffland and Noeme Wiltfang, Bundesdateschutzgesetz (BDSG) (Erich
Schmidt Verlag) (looseleaf service updated 8.06.2000), commentary to § 29, 6-7 (weighing of interests
must be done for individual case), 11 (reluctance to include “positive” data). The so-called “SCHUFA-
Klauseln,” the agreements to permit banks and other financial institutions to share information, which are
familiar to all Germans, are reproduced as appendices 2-4 of id. For the development of the German norms,
see Dieter Ungnade, Erkath and Franz Josef Gorynia, Datenschutz und Kreditgewerbe, Zeitschrift für
Wirtschafts - und Bankrecht, Sonderbeilage Nr. 7/1983 (=Wertpapier-Mitteilungen Teil IV). See also
Ulrich Wurmeling, Scoring von Kreditrisiken, NJW 2002, 3508. Credit scoring is provided only through
statistical aggregation of anonymised data, in order to prevent violations of the privacy rights of individual
consumers.


                                                                                                           54
good credit reporting ought to make life easier for everybody, and indeed make

everybody richer. But for the continental legal tradition, the basic issue is of course not

just one of market efficiency. Consumers need more than credit. They need dignity.

The idea that any random merchant might have access to the “image” of your financial

history is simply too intuitively distasteful to people brought up in the continental world.

         The protection of consumer data reflects in many ways the same clash of

attitudes. Europeans have aggressively condemned traffic in consumer data: It is,

European lawyers believe, a serious potential violation of the privacy rights of the

consumer if marketers can purchase data about his or her preferences, and regulation is

thus imperative. The resulting protections are embodied in the European’s Commission’s

forceful Privacy Directive of 1995, and today Europeans claim the authority, as the Wall

Street Journal puts it, to play “Privacy Cop to the World.”165 Americans have of course

been much slower and more hesitant to regulate, with the resulting battles that I have

already described. And indeed, the continental attitude is not easy for Americans to

understand. After all, there is a benefit in the traffic in consumer data. If marketers can

learn more easily what my preferences are, they can provide me more easily with the

goods and services I seek. To put it in the language of American law and economics,

trafficking in consumer data lowers search costs: It makes it easier for buyers and sellers

to find each other, creating sales that would otherwise not have been made, and thereby

enhances the efficiency of the market. This does not mean that Americans do not

experience some anxiety about the traffic in their “private” information. But it does

mean that they have been far less categorical in their condemnations than Europeans have

165
    Directive 95/46EC. Scheer, Europe’s New High-Tech Role: Playing Privacy Cop to the World, Wall
Street Journal, Oct. 10, 2003, p. A1. To Europeans, as a leading commentator puts it, it seems clear that
citizens can


                                                                                                            55
been. Where European law allows the collection of consumer data only for limited

purposes and limited times, upon explicit consent of the affected person and under

government supervision, 166 Americans are much more willing to tolerate industry self-

regulation. 167 Most of all, when they do propose regulation, they tend, in a

characteristically American way, to favor “ market-based solutions to personal data

protection,” as Pamela Samuelson writes, “over the strict comprehensive regulatory

regime adopted . . in Europe.”168

         Indeed. Europeans have a harder time seeing the benefits of free- market

solutions. Indeed, as another leading scholar puts it, Europeans “trust government more

than the private sector with personal information.”169 Why is this? It is not hard to

understand if we keep in mind the continental traditions I have described. Privacy is an

aspect of personal dignity, within the continental tradition, and personal dignity is never

satisfactorily safeguarded by market mechanisms. Ever since the case of Dumas père,

continental law has resisted the notion that one can definitively alienate one’s

“dignity.”170 Dignity, to this way of thinking, simply must be treated differently from

property. As one French scholar insists, contrasting the American attitude with the

French, one can freely dispose of one’s liberty, but one can never be permitted to freely

dispose of one’s dignity. 171 If you accept that premise, you should accept the proposition


166
    See Directive 95/46EC, Art. 6 (1) (b), 6 (1) (c), 6 (1) (e), 7 (2).
167
    Scheer, Europe’s New High-Tech Role: Playing Privacy Cop to the World, Wall Street Journal, Oct. 10,
2003, p. A16.
168
    Pamela Samuelson, Privacy as Intellectual Property?, 52 Stan. L.Rev. 1125, 1128 (2000). For
Americans sceptical of such market solutions, see Paul M. Schwartz, Privacy and Democracy in
Cyberspace, 42 Vand.L.Rev. 1609 (1999); Julie E. Cohen, Examined Lives: Informational Privacy and the
Subject as Object, 52 Stan. L. Rev. 1373 (2000).
169
    Joel Reidenberg, E-Commerce and Trans-Atlantic Privacy, 38 Hous L. Rev. 717, 731 (2001).
170
    For limitations in Ge rman law, see Osterrieth, Urheberrecht, 168-169.
171
    Beignier, Droit de la Personnalité, 61. Beignier, I should note, would not accept my account here, since
he places the emphasis much more on traditional notions of post-war human dignity.


                                                                                                         56
that any consumer consent to the sale of his or her data should have only limited effect at

best. After all, “the importance of one’s image,” as a recent French article puts it, is

greater than ever “in the information society.”172 Here again consumers need more than

cheap goods and services, just as they need more than easy credit. They need dignity. If

your consumer profile is floating around somewhere in cyberspace, you are not in control

of your image. This sort of thinking has far less resonance in America than it does in

Germany and France. But of course this is because we have so much less of the

continental sense that a just world is a world in which everybody’s respectability is

carefully protected. 173 We will never quite share the continental intuitions that fuel the

continental conviction that trading in consumer data must be prevented, or at least sharply

limited by law.

        As these examples suggest, continental privacy is not just for Princess Caroline of

Monaco, Princess Soraya or Prince Ernst August. It is for the ordinary person as well, in

his or her guise as consumer. It is also for the ordinary person in his or her guise as

worker. Continental law has made considerable efforts to guarantee the privacy of

workers in the workplace, at least within the limits of the possible. 174 Worker emails, for

example, are vigorously protected in a way that is not the case in America. 175 There are

protections for workers’ other private documents, guarantees against video surveillance,

and rights to use telephones for personal calls—all in the name of maintaining a certain

172
    Lamberterie and Strubel, L’Image Manipulée, 374.
173
    Thus “information professionals” are subject in French law to an obligation of “objectivity,” which is
part of the right to one’s image. See Lamberterie and Strubel, L’Image Manipulée, 357-358; [L. Marino,
Responsabilité civile, activité d’iniformation et médias (1997)]
174
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 111-122; Manfred Weiss and Barbara Geck, Worker Privacy in
Germany, 17 Comparative Labor Law Journal 75 (1995). These issues are explored more extensively in
Whitman and Friedman, European Transformation of Harassment Law.
175
    Martine Bourrie-Quenillet and Florence Rodhain, L’Utilisation de la messagerie electronique dans
l’entreprise. Aspects juridiques et managériaux en France et aux Etats-Unis, La Semaine Juridique no. 2,
January 9, 2002


                                                                                                        57
“personal sphere.”176 It goes well beyond emails and the like, too, to cover a wide of

issues touching questions of workplace dignity. One striking French decision, for

example, found it a violation of dignity rights when the employer in a retail store required

that employees show a receipt for merchandise that they wished to take home. Treating

workers with that sort of suspiciousness was regarded by the court as a violation of their

expectation to be treated as honorable persons. 177

        The contrast with American approaches to the workplace is telling. American

privacy protections, at their metaphoric core, are the sorts of protections afforded by the

walls of one’s home. They have been extended beyond the literal home, of course, since

the eighteenth century. Nevertheless, it remains the case that American protections

become progressively weaker the further the affected person is from home. This is

particularly true when courts apply the “reasonable expectation of privacy” test

developed in the Fourth Amendment context. 178 The primary locus of one’s “reasonable

expectation of privacy” is of course in the home, and persons outside the home have

correspondingly few privacy protections. This applies to workers as well, whose

expectation of privacy in the workplace, according to the American cases, is sometimes

close to nil. 179

        The same contrast holds in one of the most striking aspects of the comparative

law of privacy: the treatment of criminal offenders, accused persons, and prison inmates.

Continental privacy protections extend to these classes of persons as well. Continental

privacy law has been strongly concerned with the privacy rights of persons caught up in

176
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 111-119
177
    Whitman and Friedman, European Transformation of Harassment Law, 260.
178
    See O’Connor v. Ortega, 480 U.S. 709 (1987) (permitting workplace search applying “reasonable
expectation of privacy” test).
179
    E.g. Thompson v. Johnson County Community College, 930 F. Supp. 501 (D. Kan. 1996).


                                                                                                    58
the toils of the justice system. In Germany, modern “personality” protections grow pre-

eminently out of a 1976 case involving a homosexual prison inmate, convicted of an act

of terrorism. In that case, Lebach, the German Constitutional Court found that it would

be a violation of the inmate’s “personality” rights to broadcast a made-for-T.V. movie

about him. Lebach has been regarded since as the font of late twentieth-century

“personality” doctrine. 180 French law too has made strong efforts to guarantee the

privacy of accused persons as a fundamental aspect of the presumption of innnocence, 181

and more broadly of the “honorability” of the accused. 182 In line with this, both Germany

and France make considerable efforts to guarantee that prison inmates will enjoy

protections for their privacy, in ways that are unimaginable for Americans. 183 Accused

persons too enjoy, at least in principle, protections that are not available to their

American counterparts.



                                                     VI

180
    On Lebach, see Friedrich Kübler, ed., Medienwirkung and Medienverantwortung (Baden-Baden:
Nomos, 1975). The Lebach doctrine has now been altered somewhat by the so-called Lebach II decision, 1
BvR 348/98 vom 25.11.1999. These are not mechanically applied principles, of course. See e.g. Bverf G
Beschl. v. 16.5.2002—1BvR 2257/01, in NJW 2002, 3231 (dossier compiled during investigation may be
kept even after acquittal of defendant under some circumstances.) For a survey of the current state of
German law with regard to the accused at trial, see Otto Kissel, ed., Gerichtsverfassungsgesetz, 3d ed.
(Munich: Beck, 2001), § 169, para 14-20, 26 (dangers of exposure for accused); § 169, para 85-93 (press
coverage); §§171 a – 171b (closing of trials,including for protection of privacy). Germans feel the tension
between the imperative of the public openness of the courts and the need for the protection of personality
quite acutely. See Bodo Pieroth, Gerichtsöffentlichkeit und Persönlichkeitsschutz, in Hans-Uwe Erichsen,
Helmut Kollhosser and Jürgen Welp, eds., Recht der Persönlichkeit (Berlin: Duncker und Humblot, 1996),
249-277. For the law of press reporting, which certainly does leave room for much detailed publication, as
readers of German newspapers will know, see also Karl Egbert Wenzel, Das Recht der Wort- und
Bilderberichterstattung (Cologne: Schmidt, 1994), 448-449.
181
    Code Civil art. 9-1, as amended in 1992. See the fuller account in Pierre Kayser, La Protection de la Vie
Privée par le Droit, 3d ed. (Aix-Marseilles : Economica, 1995), 173-175.
182
    Jean Dematteis and Nadein Poulet-Gibot Leclerc, Peut-on Supprimer l’Article 11 du Code de Procédure
Pénale relatif au secret de l’instruction, La Semaine Juridique G 2002, I 170 para. 5. This article describes
the real tension between this ideal and the ideals of freedom of the press. For the strong contrast with U.S.
law, see esp. Paul v. Davis, 424 U.S. 693 (1976) (permitting public posting of photograph of “active
shoplifter” against whom charges had been dropped.)
183
    Whitman, Harsh Justice


                                                                                                          59
        Differences in cultural tradition, in short, have made for palpable differences in

law. The differences are most striking, and most categorical, where the values of free

speech are involved. Here it is above all the classic problems of privacy law—sex and

nudity—that provide the most revealing examples. They are my topic in this last section

discussing continental law.

        With regard to France, some of the striking contrasts in the law were traced by

Jeanne Hauch in a 1991 article with the wonderful title “The Warren and Brandeis Tort is

Alive and Well—and Living in Paris.”184 Hauch offers, among others, the example of

Oliver Sipple. Sipple was the unfortunate man who thwarted the attempt of Squeaky

Fromm to assassinate President Gerald Ford. He was homosexual—a fact that he very

much wanted kept out of the press. This proved to be impossible under the American law

of “public figures.” Of course, in any democracy the private doings of at least some

public figures are a matter of legitimate public interest, and every system recognizes

that. 185 Since the 1960s, though, the American “newsworthiness” exception has grown

mightily, and peculiarly, in scope. 186 Freedom of expression is a value of constitutional

magnitude in the United States, whereas the protection of personal ho nor is not, and

freedom of expression almost always wins out over the countervailing values in

American law. That is what doomed Oliver Sipple’s effort to keep his homosexuality out

of the papers. Although Sipple’s entry into the public eye was the result only of his

heroism in a moment of danger, the California Supreme Court held that there was a

legitimate public interest in his “private” life. In any case, the court held, “he did not

184
    Jeanne M. Hauch, Protecting Private Facts in France: The Warren & Brandeis Tort is Alive and Well
and Flourishing in Paris, 68 Tul. L. Rev. 1219 (1994).
185
    For Germany: §23 KUG and e.g. Soehring, Presserecht, 427-428, 434-437;
186
    Harry Kalven, Jr., Privacy in Tort Law—Were Warren and Brandeis Wrong?, 31 Law & Contemp.
Probs. 326 (1966), noted what has been a spiraling growth ever since.


                                                                                                        60
make a secret” of his sexual orientation, at least in San Francisco. 187 Sipple (whose

family in the midwest had known nothing of his California life) eventually committed

suicide. 188

        It is precisely cases like this that Europeans see differently. The right of free

expression that protects the press, is always balanced in continental Europe against an

individual right to “dignity,” “honor” or “personality,”189 which implies a right to

personal privacy. Exactly that was true of a 1985 French case that Hauch uses as a foil to

the Sipple decision. That 1985 case involved a man who attended a Gay Pride parade in

Paris, dressed in a way that made it clear that he was himself gay. His image was

captured in a newsphoto. Now, French law has long held that persons appearing in

public may be photographed, but that no photograph may be published that focuses on

them as individuals, unless they consent. Moreover, to the French way of thinking, the

fact that one has revealed oneself to a restricted public—say, the gay community of

Paris—does not imply that one has lost all protections before the larger public. These

principles matter, and French court accordingly acknowledged the plaintiff’s right to

oppose publication of his image. 190

        The contrast between the treatment of Sipple and the treatment of this French

victim of publicity is typ ical of a much deeper contrast in attitude, which one

commentator on the supposed “failure” of American privacy law describes this way:


187
    Sipple v. Chronicle Publis hing, 201 Cal. Rptr. 665 (Cal. App. 1st 1984). An example frequently paired
with this case is Haynes v. Alfred A. Knopf, 8 F.3d 1222 (7th Cir. 1993).
188
    Rosen, Unwanted Gaze, 48.
189
    For a survey of German approaches and problems, see Ahrens, Personlichkeitsrecht und Freiheit der
Medienberichterstattung; for French approaches, with comparison to German and American law, Laurent
Pech, La Liberté d’Expression et sa Limitation (Clermont-Ferrand: Presses Universitaires de la Faculté de
Droit de Clermont-Ferrand, 2003), 147-230.
190
    Judgment of June 14, 1985, Cour d'appel de Paris, 1986 D.S. inf. rap. 50 somm. Raymond Lindon (Fr.).
For discussion see Beignier, Droit de la Personnalité, 54-55 ; Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 92-93, 141.


                                                                                                        61
         [P]rivacy is not the only cherished American value. We also cherish information,

         and candour, and freedom of speech. We expect to be free to discover and

         discuss the secrets of our neighbours, celebrities, and public officials. We expect

         government to conduct its business publicly, even if that infringes the privacy of

         those caught up in the matter. Most of all, we expect the media to uncover the

         truth and report it—not merely the truth about government and public affairs, but

         the truth about people.

         The law protects these expectations too—and when they collide with expectations

         of privacy, privacy almost always loses.191

In Europe, by contrast, “personal honor” very often wins out. As one leading German

author put it in 1959, at a time when Germans began to reassert their own distinctive

national traditions, there is simply an inevitable tension between the worldview of a

Goethe, for whom the development of “personality” was “the greatest blessing of the

children of the earth,” and the worldview of a Jefferson, for whom press liberty was the

indispensable foundation of a free society. 192 Europeans are by no means completely

deaf to the pleas of Jefferson, but the attitude of Goethe always haunts their thinking too.

That does not mean that Europeans are doctrinaire. They have their own doctrine of

“public figures.” But that doctrine cuts far less deeply, as numerous cases indicate. And

even when the courts allow “intrusions” into the lives of “public figures,” commentators

grumble. 193


191
    David A. Anderson, The Failure of American Privacy Law, in B. Markesinis, ed., Protecting Privacy
(Oxford: Oxford U. Press, 1999), 140. For a vigorous statement of this position, see Eugene Volokh,
Freedom of Speech and Information Privacy: The Troubling Implications of a Right to Stop People from
Speaking About You, 52 Stan.L Rev 1049 (2000).
192
    Löffler, Persönlichkeitsschutz und Meinungsfreheit, Neue Juristische Wochenschrift 1959, 1.
193
    In France, most recently, there is the matter of Barcia c/ S.A. Groupe Express, Cour d’Appel de Paris,
1ère chambre, section B, Arret du 20 Septembre 2001. In that case, the court allowed the publication of a


                                                                                                         62
        Many more examples can be offered—most especially involving nudity, and most

especially involving the internet. In German and French legal culture, we still find much

the attitude that we found in the 1877 decision regarding Ingres’ nude sketch of Mme.

Moitessier: One ought to have control over one’s nude image. This means, of course,

that one can sell the rights to image, just as one can in America194 —at least provisionally.

Nevertheless, there are limits. In one 1974 case, for example, a French actress was

permitted to supress movie scenes in which she had willingly appeared naked: One’s

nude image is simply not definitively alienable under continental norms. 195 In other

cases, models have been able to suppress the republication of their nude photos in

magazines other than the ones they posed for—a matter in which “French law,” a

commentator observes approvingly, “is . . . totally opposed to American law.”196 The

same sort of attitude has also affected both continental cyberlaw and the continental law

of public nudity. The internet has produced two recent leading cases in particular, one in

Germany and one in France, in both of which courts imposed liability on internet service

providers which housed nude images of celebrities. In the German decision, Steffi Graf,

the former tennis star, successfully sued Microsoft for its refusal to guarantee that it


photograph of the head of the French Trotskyite, who had appeared at a funeral. For grumbling about this
decision, see Bernard Mathieu and Michel Verpeaux, Jurisprudence Constitutionelle, La Semaine
Juridique, 13 November 2002, JCP G 2002, I 180/182, para 29 (available on lexis). For Germany see the
decision in the matter of the reproduction of a nude photo of Katarina Witt, published in Playboy magazine.
The German court allowed the reproduction since it was in small format and clearly intended for purposes
of satire or political commentary. OLG Frankfurt a.M., Urt. V. 21.9.1999, in NJW 2000, 594-595. For
grumbling, see Seitz, Einmal nackt - immer frei?, NJW 2000, 2167 ff.
194
    E.g Bouvard, Commercialisation, 375-376 ; Beignier, Droit de la personnalité, 55.
195
    D.1974, 766. Discussed in Florence Bouvard, La Commercialisation de l'Image de la Personne
Physique, in Image et Droit, ed. Pascale Bloch (Paris: L’Harmattan, 2002), 375-411, here 380. This indeed
applies in principle more generally to sales of one’s image. See Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 176. For
German law wrestling with the problem of the limits of the alienability of nude images, seeMartin Löffler
and Reinhart Ricker, Handbuch des Presserechts (Munich: Beck, 1986), 290-291; Unwirksamkeit einer
Einwilligung in die Anfertigung pornografischer Fotos, NJW—RR 1987, 1434-1435; Schadensersatz für
Nacktfoto im Fernsehen, NJW 1985, 1617-1620.
196
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 165 and generally discussion at 163-167.


                                                                                                        63
would prevent dissemination of a “fake”—a picture of her head superimposed on the

nude body of another woman. The leading French case involved the model Estelle

Hallyday, who similarly sued a service provider—this time a free service provider—for

housing her nude image. Hallyday’s suit put the provider in question out of business.

There a been a number of such French cases since. 197 Indeed, there has been criminal

liability: One young man who published a nude photos of his ex- girlfriend on the

internet (with commentary) recevied a suspended sentence of eight months’

imprisonment and a fine of 25,000 francs—a serious sentence in France. 198 These cases

do not establish an unconditional right. In particular, here again, European law does

understand how to make exceptions for public figures. 199 There is no absolute control

over the dissemination of one’s nude image in continental law. Nevertheless, there is no

doubt that the continental courts are on the watch.

         The situation is different in America. Theoretically, the same rights exist in some

form in American law. Nevertheless, both culture and practice differ. Congress has

passed legislation that aims to forbid imposing liability on service providers as such. 200

Perhaps more strikingly, unlike the European courts, American courts see little point in




197
    For another much-discussed example: Lynda Lacoste, a French model, obtained a similar injunction
when her nude image was circulated by a internet porn outfit. S.A. Multimania c/ Madame L., Cour
d’Appel de Versailles, Arrêt no. 859 du 8. Juin, 2000; see also S.A. SPPI and Mesdames V.B., S.F., A.B.,
M.S., S.L., J.J., and H.G. c/ Société Fox Média, Tribunal de Grande Instance de Paris, 29 Mai 2002.
198
    Discussed in Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 127.
199
    As an example we may take a recent German case involving Katarina Witt, the ice-skating star who
posed for Playboy magazine. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung was permitted to reproduce her nude
photo, as long as it did so in a small format, and in a context that clearly was intended to make a political
statement.
200
    Communications Decency Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. §230(c)(1): “No provider or user of an internet
computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another
information content provider”; as interpreted by Zeran v. America Online, Inc, 129 F.3d 327 (4th Cir. 1997)
(no distributer liability for internet service providers); Blumenthal v. Drudge, 992 F. Supp. 44 (D.D.C.
1998).


                                                                                                          64
issuing injunctions once images have been irrevocably diffused over the net. 201 This led

to the result, for example, in the case of Dr. Laura Schlessinger, a well-known

conservative radio commentator, who posed for some cheesy nude photos for a man who

was her boyfriend and mentor in the 1960s. In 1998, Schlessinger’s (now ex-) boyfriend

sold the photos to Internet Entertainment Group (IEG), an organization that specialized in

putting exactly such nude photos of celebrities online. IEG promptly put the photos on

display. Indeed, in a show of almost parodic contempt for norms of privacy, the IEG site

was equipped with technology that allowed paying viewers to zoom in on any part of Dr.

Schlessinger’s anatomy. This is little doubt that any continental court would have

enjoined an outfit like this from distributing the photos. Even in America, Dr.

Schlessinger did succeed in obtaining an injunction for a time. After a few weeks,

though, the court lifted the injunction, on the grounds that the photos were already widely

available on the internet. 202 From a certain point of view, of course, the real result of Dr.

Schlessinger’s suit was no different from the real result in the cases of Steffi Graf or

Estelle Hallyday: The curious can still find the relevant nude pictures of all of these

unfortunate celebrities online. (Indeed, critics of the Hallyday decision loudly

complained that her nude images remained available on at least twenty sites. 203 ) But

European courts still feel obliged to forbid the circula tion of those pictures, even when it

is futile to do so, in order to express the importance of values of the protection of “private


201
    In describing this difference, Europeans usually refer, somewhat misleadingly, to the notorious case of
the honeymoon video of Pamela Anderson Lee. E.g. Bertrand, Droit à l’image, [cite]. That case had some
peculiarities which make it, in fact, a poor example, since Lee had previously entered into a settlement that
included a waiver of any right to sue. See David Rosenzweig, Celebrities Lose Nude Photo Cases, LA
Times Nov. 3, 1998, p. B1.
202
    David Rosenzweig, Celebrities Lose Nude Photo Cases, LA Times Nov. 3, 1998, p. B1. This follows an
older line of authority in the American courts. See Heath v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc., 732 F. Supp. 1145
(S.D. Fla. 1990); Ritzmann v. Weekly World News, 614 F. Supp. 1336 (N.D. Tex. 1985).
203
    See http://www.chez.com/ jezequel/archives/fev99/altern.html.


                                                                                                          65
life.” Moreover European courts feel obliged to penalize the persons responsible, be they

internet service providers or delinquent ex-boyfriends. 204 American law is, our French

commentator observes, “radically different.”205

        This is not, let me emphasize, because Europeans are more squeamish about

nudity than Americans. Quite the contrary. Germans in particular appear fully nude in

places like public parks (in the summer) and public co-ed saunas (in the winter) with a

sans-gêne that Americans can hardly fathom; and French women go topless, not only on

the beach, but also on the banks of the Seine. (Though there are certainly limits: For

example, one German court recently held that jogging in the raw went a bit too far. . .

.206 ) Nevertheless, as I began by observing, it is most assuredly the Americans who are

most troubled, and even put off, by nudity. The difference is not tha t Europeans refuse to

be seen nude, but they insist that they want to be the ones who should determine when

and under what circumstances they will be seen nude. The difference is that the decision

to appear nude, for Europeans, belongs to their control of their image.

        Indeed, even when they appear nude in public, individual Europeans have

sometimes tried to claim a right not to be shown naked by the media. Scenes of naked

bodies, whether on the beach or in the parks, are of course irresistibly tempting to

journalists. Photographs are inevitably published, and the persons portrayed sometimes

sue. Such suits are indeed the ultimate test of the continental notion that people should

have absolute control over the diffusion of their image. These suits have failed in



204
    The cultural differences may indeed run deeper than that: American celebrities—though “fakes” of
many of them are to be had on the internet too—do not apparently feel moved to sue in the way Steffi Graf
did. American legal culture is just less oriented to the suppression of unauthorized nude images than is
continental legal culture.
205
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 168.
206
    Richter stoppen Freiburger Nackt-Jogger, Süddeutsche Zeitung, May 11, 2000.


                                                                                                       66
France. 207 But German courts are less categorical. Under the German law of the right to

one’s image, the control of pictures of the naked body belongs “exclusively to the

individual.”208 This was the rule at stake in the case of a Munich man who filed suit after

newpaper photos were published showing him naked in the Englischer Garten. The

court took his claim seriously enough to hold that he had in principle suffered harm to his

“personality” rights, though it ruled against his claim for damages. Even in ruling against

his claim for damages, thought, the court emphasized that his genitals were not exposed

in the photo. 209 Had his genitals been exposed, the case might have come out differently.

The German court thus found it important to state the principle that nude persons have a

right to control their public face, just as clothed people do. In this, the law only tracks

German sensibilities more broadly, and in particularly the German etiquette of public

nudity. Indeed, any serious scholar’s research into continental privacy norms should

include a good stint on a German Liegewiese. As any German there will tell you, it is a

matter of ordinary politeness that nude people have a right not to be stared at. Taking off

all your clothes, even in a public park, does not constitute a surrender of your privacy.

        Such is the sort of attitude that we must grasp if we want to understand

continental law: We must understand that there could be such a thing as private public

nudity. It is an attitude that American law simply does not comprehend, as we can see

most strikingly from the Supreme Court’s 1995 decision in Vernonia School District v.

Acton. 210 This was a case that presented the question of whether high school athletes



207
    Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 160-161.
208
    §23 abs. 2 KUG. Jörg Soehring, Presserecht. Recherche, Darstellung und Haftung im Recht der Presse
des Rundfunks und der Neuen Medien, 3d ed. (Stuttgart: Schäffer-Poeschel, 2000), 445.
209
    Bildveröffentlichung eines nackten Sonnenbaders, Archiv für Presserecht 86, 69-71.
210
     515 U.S. 646 (1995); sim. Board of Education v. Earls, 122 S. Ct. 2559 (2002) (“communal undress”
creates reduced expectation of privacy).


                                                                                                     67
could be subjected to mandatory drug testing. In holding that they could, the Supreme

Court offered, among others, an argument that took the following form: Athletes

regularly shower together in the nude. Since they voluntarily expose themselves through

this “communal undress,” they have a “reduced expectation of privacy” with regard to

whether their urine will be tested for the presence of drugs. Once a person appears nude

in public—even before a highly restricted public—he has, in the eyes of the Court, at

least partly surrendered his claim to privacy. 211 To the continental ear, this is a bizarre

non sequitur. The fact that students have willingly appeared naked in one circumstance

says strictly nothing about whether they have broadly surrendered their right to control

access to data about them, and certainly nothing about whether they have consented to a

urine test. 212 For Americans, by contrast, the right to privacy is, at its metaphoric core, a

right to hide behind the walls of one’s own home. Those who have abandoned the

protection of the home, and a fortiori the protection of clothing, have at best a diminished

claim to privacy.



                                                    VII

         Indeed, continental ideas of privacy are just not much at home in American legal

culture. To be sure, there is certainly American law on the books that sounds something

like what we find on the books of Germany or France. American law has its famous four

forms of the privacy tort, as analyzed by Prosser in 1960: intrusion upon seclusion213 ;




211
    Not every court takes this attitude. Cf. Michaels v. Internet Entertain ment Group, Inc., 5 F. Supp 2d 823
(C.D. Cal. 1998).
212
    For applications of this rule, see Soehring, Presserecht, 450-452.
213
    Rest. (2d) of Torts, §652B (1977)


                                                                                                           68
appropriation of the name or likeness of another 214 ; public disclosure of private facts

“not of legitimate concern to the public”215 ; and disclosure of private facts in such a way

as to portray victims in a “false light.”216 There is considerable legislation too, like the

Video Privacy Protection Act of 1987, passed in reaction to journalistic investigations of

Robert Bork, and various other acts and bills, both state and federal. American

legislatures do pass privacy protection statutes of various kinds217 —especially, as Jeffrey

Rosen has observed, in the wake of “heartstring- tugging” scandals. 218 While many of

these statutes treat the government as the principal threat to privacy, not all of them do.

Though less than a third of the states have general laws on the protection of privacy, there

certainly are state protections. 219 There are even state constitutional protections for

privacy. 220 There are certainly decisions giving protection to one’s image, notably cases

involving the nude or sexually charged images of young women who did not

intentionally pose in a provocative way, 221 or who are the victims of sexual assaults, 222 or

who otherwise seem to be walking “the path of rectitude.”223 There are certainly cases

involving non- governmental invasions of the “privacy of the home,”224 and especially of




214
     Rest. (2d) of Torts, §652C (1977)
215
     Rest. (2d) of Torts, §652D (1977).
216
     Rest. (2d) of Torts, §652E (1977)
217
     For a survey, see Robert Ellis Smith, Compilation of State and Federal Privacy laws (2002).
218
     Rosen, Unwanted Gaze, 170. For an example, see the California Anti-Paparazzi Act, Cal. Civ. Code
§1708, passed in the wake of the death of Princess Diana.
219
     Solove and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 25.
220
     Alaska Const. Art. I, §22; Cal. Const. Art. I, §1; Fla. Const. Art. I, §23.
221
     E.g. Lake v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 582 N.W. 2d 231 (Minn. 1998) (circulation of photos giving false
impression that victim was lesbian); Wood v. Hustler Magazine, 736 F.2d 1084 (5th Cir. 1984).
222
    [Evidentiary shield laws]; N.Y. Civil Rights L. §50-b; 42 Pa. Comp. Stat. §5988, both cited in Solove
and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 89.
223
     Melvin v. Reid, 297 P.91 (Cal. 1931) (the Red Kimono case).
224
     Rhodes v. Graham, 37 S.W. 2d 46 (Ky.1931), as excerpted in Richard Turkington and Anita Allen,
Privacy Law: Cases and Materials, 2d ed. (2002), 538. Women are not the only ones for whom American
law shows this kind of concern. For a recent example involving a man, see Solano v. Playgirl, 292 F.3d
1078.


                                                                                                       69
the privacy of the bedroom225 : Where the walls of the home are breached Americans can

be sensitive. There is a lot of American scholarship that vigorously defends the European

point of view. 226 And of course, there is the famous article of Warren and Brandeis.

        Nevertheless, as our many and heated conflicts with Europe suggest, the

American attitude remains different. It is not true that American law is absolutely

different from European law. No generalization about any legal system is ever absolutely

correct: Law is always some thing of a jumble, and there are always exceptions to any

general description. The differences that we can see are always comparative differences,

not absolute ones. Nevertheless, the American climate of values remains basically

inhospitable to the European way of looking at things. We do find patches of more or

less continental law in America, just as patches of snow sometimes survive in a hollow

on an early spring day. But over time, most efforts to make American law look more

continental tend to melt away.

        This is indeed how we should understand the fate of “the most influential law

review article of all,”227 Louis Brandeis and Samuel Warren’s 1890 “Right to Privacy.”

Brandeis and Warren undertook the seminal, and still most-cited, effort to introduce a

continental-style right of privacy into American law. In theory, their right is still part of

the law almost everywhere in America. Nevertheless, it is generally conceded that, after




225
    Hamberger v. Eastman, 206 A.2d 239 (N.H.1964). This case is a chestnut in the American privacy
literature. See Turkington and Allen, Privacy Law, 539-540; Robert C. Post, Constitutional Domains:
Democracy, Community, Management (Cambridge: Harvard U. Press, 1995), 52.
226
    See above
227
    Samuel D. Warren & Louis D. Brandeis, The Right to Privacy, 4 Harv. L. Rev. 193 (1890); as
described in Harry Kalven, Jr., Privacy in Tort Law—Were Warren and Brandeis Wrong?, 31 Law &
Contemp. Problems 326, 327 (1966).


                                                                                                      70
a century of legal history, it amounts to little in American practice today. 228 The story of

the relative failure of Warren and Brandeis is precisely a study in how poorly continental

ideas do in the American climate.

         In fact, it is best to think of the Warren and Brandeis tort, not as a great American

innovation, but as an unsuccessful continental transplant. For, though commentators

have failed to recognize it, what the two authors set out to do was precisely to introduce

the continental protection of privacy into America. It is hardly news that the Warren and

Brandeis was born in a world of Boston respectability closely akin to the high society of

late nineteenth-century Europe. Warren was a Boston Brahmin, a child of one of the

socially dominant families of the city. Brandeis was the son of Bohemian-Jewish

immigrants who had fled to America after 1848. 229 Their article was written in a fit of

outrage over newspaper reports of a party given by the Warrens, 230 and its main target

was the gossip pages of the “yellow press,” which Warren and Brandeis were convinced

represented a new phenomenon. 231 Like a number of authors of the period, 232 they were



228
     Rodney Smolla, Privacy and the First Amendment Right to Gather News, 67 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1097
(1999); Diane L. Zimmerman, Requiem for a Heavyweight: A Farewell to Warren and Brandeis’ Privacy
Tort, 68 Cornell L. Rev. 291, 333-334, 340 (1983).
229
     Alton Gal, Brandeis of Boston (Cambridge: Harvard U. Press, 1980), 1-5.
230
    There has been some confusion about this, but the basic story remains the same. See James H. Barron,
Warren and Brandeis, The Right to Privacy, 4 Harvard L. Rev. 193 (1890): Demystifying a Landmark
Citation, 13 Suffolk L. Rev. 875 (1979); Diane L. Zimmerman, Requiem for a Heavyweight: A Farewell to
Warren and Brandeis's Privacy Tort, 68 Cornell L.Rev. 291, 295-296 (1983).
231
    This was not true: society reporting had been standard newspaper fare since the seventeenth century.
Indeed, newspaper reporting in some ways began as society reporting. See e.g. the description of aims of
the Mercure de France, founded in 1672, in Larousse: Grand Dictionnaire Universel du XIXe Siècle, vol 11
(Paris, 1874), p. 63 (Newspaper concerned in part with details of marriages and like). What is true is that
newspapers in the age of Warren and Brandeis, unlike newspapers of the seventeenth or eighteenth
centuries, had a mass audience, so that society reporting could now be read, not only by society readers, but
by people in all walks of life. This was indeed a relatively novel situation in the nineteenth century, with
its rising literacy rates and its developing tabloid press, and it was a situation that Warren and Brandeis
232
     The most frequently cited is E.L. Godkin, The Rights of the Citizen: IV. To His Own Reputation,
Scribner’s Magazine (1890); Godkin, The Right to Privacy, The Nation (Dec. 25, 1890); Cooley, Law of
Torts, 2d ed. 1888, 29. When Joseph Kohler denounced the American “right of privacy” in 1903, though,
he cited none of these works. Instead he cited Adams in North American Review, Sept. 1902, and Percy L.


                                                                                                         71
upset by these press intrusions. “The press,” the two co-authors complained, “is

overstepping in every direction the obvious bounds of propriety and of decency. . . . To

occupy the indolent, column upon column is filled with idle gossip, which can only be

procured by intrusion upon the domestic circle.”233 The only answer to the challenge,

they insisted, was to insist on a “right to privacy.” This would protect individuals not

only against the press, but against intrusive photographers and the like as well. Nor

would the new right be confined to high-status people like the Warrens. “The design of

the law must be to protect those persons with whose affairs the community has no

legitimate concern, from being dragged into an undesirable and undesired publicity and

to protect all persons, whatsoever their position or station, from having matters which

they may properly prefer to keep private, made public against their will.”234

        All of this was obviously much in the continental style, up to and including its

desire to level up, to guarantee the right of all citizens, “whatsoever their station,” to be

safe from “undesirable and undesired publicity.” 235 The high-status tenor of the Warren

and Brandeis article is indeed something any reader of their article can see immediately,

and critics of Warren and Brandeis have said so. 236 But if we look closely at the article

we can see something else: We can see that Warren and Brandeis took continental law as

their starting point.



Edwards, Right of Privacy and Equity Relief, 55 Central Law Journal 123 (1902). See Kohler, Das
Eigenbild im Recht (Berlin: Guttentag, 1903), 7 n. 1.
233
    4 Harv L Rev. 196
234
    Id., 214
235
    In this, Warren and Brandeis were perhaps reacting against one of their possible American sources, E.L.
Godkin, who had denounced the yellow press because it gave too much play to the “opinons. . . of obscure
and unimportant people” at the expense of “men of real value.” [CITE] For the possible influence of
Godkin on Warren Brandeis, see Elbridge L. Adams, The Right of Privacy and its Relation to the Law of
Libel, 39 Am. L. Rev. 37 (1905); Dorothy J. Glancy, The Inventon of the Right to Privacy, 21 Ariz. L. Rev.
1 (1979).
236
    Donald Pember, Privacy and the Press (1972); Solove and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 18.


                                                                                                        72
        In fact, it is not difficult to retrace the research steps that Warren and Brandeis

took. Like the authors of any law review article, they looked for authority for their

position. The first and most natural place to look for their right to privacy, the two

authors strikingly observed, lay in the protection of “honor” through the law of insult.

And there, they rightly noted, there were already lively traditions to draw upon in both

France and Germany by the end of the nine teenth century. As we have seen, by 1890,

when Warren and Brandeis wrote, the right to privacy was a longstanding topic of study

and discussion within the continental traditions of the law of insult. Indeed, continental

discussions were reaching a fever point in the 1880s. Warren and Brandeis were

perfectly familiar with this. They cited the French privacy legislation of 1868 at length,

and admiringly. 237 They also cited German scholarship on the law of insult—in

particular Salkowski’s standard Institutes and History of Roman Private Law, 238 a very

German text, which interpreted ancient Roman law through the lens of the German

philosophy:

        Iniuria in the narrower sense is every intentional and illegal violation of honour,

        i.e., the whole personality of another. . . .

        This may be committed by insulting oral or written words or signs (so-called

        verbal and symbolic injuries), by deeds (so-called real injuries), by slander, and

        speeches and acts which cast suspicion upon, or are prejudicial to, the social or

        pecuniary position of any one, or other acts interfering with the right of

        personality. 239


237
    4 Harv.L.Rev. 214 and 214 n.1, 216 and 216 n.1, 218 and 218 n.2.
238
    4 Harv.L.Rev. 198 n.1.
239
    Salkowski, Institutes and History of Roman Law, trans E. Whitfield (London: Stevens and Haynes,
1886), 688-689.


                                                                                                      73
From Salkowski, or from some other German source, Warren and Brandeis borrowed the

term “personality,” and they characterized their right to privacy, in orthodox German

fashion, as one aspect of the protection of “personality” more broadly. Indeed, it is likely

that Brandeis and Warren knew more about the continental tradition than they chose to

cite. Brandeis, who had been brought up in a germanophile Saint Louis household, had

been sent to high school in Germany during the 1870s, and he remained a passionate

admirer of German culture. It seems wholly improbable that he did not know of the

lively German literature on “personality” when he adopted the term for his article. (If he

only cited Salkowski it may be because Salkowski’s was the only German text that had

been translated into English.) Moreover, at least some of the French cases on the right to

one’s image must have been known to educated Bostonians. The Dumas père case in

particular had been an international cause célèbre. 240

           Nevertheless, though Warren and Brandeis certainly knew the continental

traditions, and cited them, they did not claim that it was possible to introduce continental

practices directly into American law. They understood the continental tradition too well

for that. The continental approach, they observed, was not available within the common

law tradition—for the simple and insurmountable reason that the law of insult, and the

protection of “personal honor,” did not exist in America. “Our system unlike the Roman

law, does not afford a remedy . . . for mental suffering which results from . . . contumely

and insult [involving] an intentional and unwarranted violation of the ‘honor’ of

another.”241 No matter how vigorous and appealing the ideas of Royer-Collard, Jhering,




240
      Mankowitz, Mazeppa, 177-178.
241
      [Need page cite from Harv L Rev]


                                                                                          74
Gareis, Beaussire and the rest might be, they could not be fitted in to the common law

precedents, which simply said nothing about personal honor, or at least nothing useful.

       Warren and Brandeis’ article thus started from the admission that the United

States was doomed to be a nation without continental-style “privacy” protections, at least

in their full form. But it continued by insisting that this was no cause for despair: Even

in the absence of a law of insult, there were other resources to which one could turn.

Indeed, Warren and Brandeis maintained, the protection of “honor” was not as promising

a vehicle for the protection of “privacy” as continental writers imagined. The apparent

analogy between honor and privacy was merely “superficial.” Another road would have

to be taken:

       It is not however necessary, in order to sustain the view that the common law

       recognizes and upholds a principle applicable to cases of invasion of privacy, to

       invoke the analogy, which is but superficial, to injuries sustained, either by an

       attack upon reputation or by what the civilians called a violation of honor; for the

       legal doctrines relating to infractions of what is ordinarily termed the common-

       law right to intellectual and artistic property are, it is believed, but instances and

       applications of a general right to privacy, which properly understood afford a

       remedy for the evils under consideration.

There was no ultimate need for “honor” in order to protect privacy; artists’ rights would

do. But even here, of course, Warren and Brandeis were pursuing a continental tack, and

most particularly a German one. The Germans, as we have seen, had created their law of

“personality” by drawing both on the law of insult and on Urheberrecht, on intellectual




                                                                                                75
and artistic property. This is exactly what Warren and Brandeis, like Gareis and Kohler

before them, did as well.

       The resulting article is of course a common law classic, a tour de force of the

effort to capture the drift of a case law system in a state of productive flux. Yet let us

note that, even in their account of common law evolution, Warren and Brandeis did not

sound all the different from their continental, and especially German, predecessors. As

we have seen, French and German writers held that privacy had emerged as a limitation

on property, and an evolutionary outgrowth of the growing sensitivity to the needs of

“personality.” Warren and Brandeis echoed these ideas. In a style unmistakably like that

of Jhering, they tried to trace the evolving “spirit” of the law. Copyright, rights in

“intellectual and artistic property,” they observed, always been understood as a property

right. Yet primitive ideas of property were falling by the wayside as the common law

evolved. It was a general evolutionary trend of the common law to get beyond the

protection of mere material “property rights,” offering new protections for the immaterial

damage of emotional and moral harms. This was true of privacy as well. Cases that had

been interpreted as property cases—as cases in copyright—in fact revealed a growing

judicial sense that it was necessary to “protect the privacy of the individual” from

invasion—not just from the literal invasion of one’s literal property, but from

metaphorical invasions “either by the too enterprising press, the photographer, or the

possessor of any other modern device for rewording or reproducing scenes or sounds.”

At the same time the common law of torts had gradually come to cognize the harm in

various forms of mental suffering. These two trends conduced to the same evolutionary




                                                                                             76
end: The trend of common law thinking was giving rise to the new “Warren and

Brandeis tort,” the tort of invasion of privacy.

         All of this made for an inspired contribution to the international literature on the

protection of privacy—one that the Germans and the French themselves still cite. 242 But

what Warren and Brandeis could not do was to bring the European structure of values to

the United States. Indeed, it was not just the continental law of insult that Warren and

Brandeis were unable to introduce into America. It was much more broadly the

constellation of ideas about personal honor that undergirded it.

         The history of the cold reception that American law has given Warren and

Brandeis has been written many times, and I will not repeat it here. I want only to

emphasize that the American resistance to Warren and Brandeis has always been a

resistance founded on two values in particular: the values of the free press, and the

values of the free market. These are of course the very values that continental advocates

of continental-style, honor-oriented privacy rights have always regarded with the greatest

suspicion.

         Freedom of expression has been the most deadly enemy of continental-style

privacy in America. To cite once again our German scholar of 1959, the conflict has

always been one between the values of Jefferson and the values of Goethe. Of all

American liberty values, freedom of the press is the most poisonous for continental style

privacy rights. Starting with the famous Sidis case of 1940, 243 American law began, in an

American way, to favor the interests of the press at the cost of almost any claim to


242
    E.g. Badinter, Droit au respect de la vie privée, paragraph 3 ; Beignier, La vie privée, in Rémy Cabrillac,
Marie-Anne Frison-Roche and Theirry Revet, Libertés et droits fondamentaux, 5th ed. (Paris : Dalloz,
1999), para. 186
243
    Sidis v. F-R Publishing Corp., 113 F.2d 806 (2d Cir. 1940).


                                                                                                            77
privacy. Perhaps the most striking examples come from the Supreme Court, with its

decisions in Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn244 and The Florida Star v. B.J.F. 245 These

were cases in which the media published the names of rape victims—in the latter case

despite the fact that dissemination of the vic tim’s name was a crime under state law. In

both cases the Supreme Court found that the First Amendment protected media outlets

against suit. 246 Freedom of expression just about always wins in America—both in

privacy cases, and in cases on infliction of emotional distress, like Hustler Magazine v.

Falwell, which denied recovery to preacher Jerry Falwell after Hustler published a

particularly gross parody. 247 This is the kind of question on which continental law, with

its focus on personal honor, comes out differently. 248

         That does not mean, of course, that American law never protects the control of

one’s image. But even where it does, it tends to do it in an American way. This is

perhaps clearest in the doctrine of the “right of publicity.” The “right of publicity” is a

characteristic American doctrinal invention, which we owe to Melville Nimmer’s work of

the 1950s. 249 In a sense, it is a doctrine of the protection of one’s image. Nimmer argued

that persons had an ownership right in their image, and that the y could sue others who

had misappropriated it. But it should be obvious that the notion of one’s image as a piece

of property, as a commercial commodity, is different in spirit from the continental

protection of image. And indeed, while continental lawyers endorse this American


244
    420 U.S. 469 (1975).
245
    491 U.S. 524 (1989). See also Bartnicki v. Vopper, 532 U.S. 514 (2001) (intercepted cell phone
conversation).
246
    See also Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U.S 374 (1967) (protecting press against “false light” privacy suit.)
247
    485 U.S. 46 (1988).
248
    See the discussion of the Strauss Political Satire Case in Eberle, Dignity and Liberty, 207-208.
249
    Melville B. Nimmer, The Right of Publicity, 19 Law & Comtemp. Probs. 203 (1954), drawing on the
opinion of Jerome Frank in Haelan Laboratories v. Topps Chewing Gum, Inc., 202 F. 2d 866 (2d Cir.
1953).


                                                                                                             78
innovation, they are careful to distinguish it from their own distinctive traditions. 250

(Indeed, Americans themselves are confused by the question of whether the right of

publicity really belongs within the realm of privacy protections or not. 251 ) And

unsurprisingly, the American doctrine produces different results from continental

doctrine. As critics complain, the “right of publicity” has tended to lose all of its

moorings in the Warren and Brandeis idea of privacy, becoming essentially a vehicle for

protecting the enterprises of celebrities like Bette Midler 252 and Vanna White. 253

Moreover, nothing in the doctrine of the “right of publicity” prevents Americans from

alienating the rights in their image, no matter how humiliating their subsequent use may

be. If your image is your property, you can sell it. In Europe, by contrast, as we have

seen, sales of your nude image remain voidable 254 —a very important doctrine, in

particular, for protecting the interests of persons who, in moments of youthful folly, have

allowed themselves to photographed in embarrassing positions.

         Finally, your American interest in your “publicity” is an interest in your property,

not an interest in your honor. This too sets the American tradition apart from the

continental, and it affects the analysis in such famous matters as the “Here’s Johnny!”

case. In that case, the entertainer Johnny Carson sued a portable toilet maker who had

adopted the well-known tag- line “Here’s Johnny!” for its product. An appellate court

held that Carson’s publicity rights had been violated. But it was careful to insist that

250
    E.g. Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 137-138. For French struggles over this, see also Elisabeth Logeais
and Jean-Baptiste Schroeder, The French Right of Image : An Ambiguous Concept Protecting the Human
Persona, 18 Loy.L.A.Ent.L.J. 511 (1998).
251
    Discussion with further references in Solove and Rotenberg, Information Privacy Law, 162-163.
252
    Midler v. Ford Motor Co., 849 F.2d 460 (9th Cir. 1988).
253
    White v. Samsung Electronics America, Inc., 989 F.2d 512 (9th Cir. 1993). For this complaint, see
Joanthan Kahn, Bringing Dignity Back to Light: Publicity Rights and the Eclipse of the Tort of
Appropriation of Identity,17 Cardozo Arts and Entertainment L. J. 213 (1999).
254
    See the discussion of Pamela Anderson Lee (along with directions to a relevant internet site!) in
Bertrand, Droit à la vie privée, 163.


                                                                                                          79
Carson’s rights were commercial rights only, not privacy rights against humiliation or

embarrassment. 255 Here again, we can see a contrast with continental law, and with

German law in particular. Even commercial enterprises can be “insulted” in Germany.

German firms have “personality” rights, and they are indeed protected against

embarrassing or humiliating uses of their slogans or logos, through what is called the

doctrine of Markenverunglimpfung.256 Some cases litigated under the American “right of

publicity” cases may come out the same way that they would be in European right to

one’s image cases. But the underlying values are different, and courts feel obliged to say

as much.

         Indeed, even if some cases come out the same way, many come out differently.

And there are many areas of the law, as we have seen, where Americans do not even

perceive the sorts of privacy violations that seem to Europeans obviously present. The

Europeans are right. At the end of the day, Americans do not really grasp the European

idea of the protection of privacy.



                                                    VII

         But does that mean that Americans don’t understand the moral imperative of

privacy in the creation of “personhood”? Such is the conclusion that commentators

repeatedly draw, both in Europe and in the United States. Yet I hope it is clear that the

problem is more complex than that. If Europeans protect “privacy,” it is not because they



255
    Carson v. Here’s Johnny Portable Toilets, Inc., 698 F.2d 831 (6th Cir. 1983); see also Finger v. Omni
Publications International, Ltd., 566 N.E.2d 141 (N.Y. Ct.App. 1990).
256
    See esp. the case known as “Markenverunglimpfung I,” available at
http://www.adicor.de/urteile.nsf/0/f71f118710a2d257c125687a002f3f0e?OpenDocument. French law is
more relaxed on this issue. See the dicussion of Isabelle de Lamberterie and Xavier Strubel, L’Image
Manipulée, in Pascale Bloch, ed., Image et Droit (Paris: L’Harmattan, 2002), 335-374, here 343-344.


                                                                                                            80
understand universal moral truths that Americans fail to understand. It is because they

live in societies that have been shaped by certain kinds of cultural expectations and

certain kinds of egalitarian ideals. After many generations of experience, Europeans have

come to value a certain kind of personhood—a kind of personhood founded in the

commitment to a society in which every person, of every social station, has the right to

put on a respectable public face—a society in which privacy rights are not just for

royalty, but for everybody. This is a concept of personhood that has been formed by the

peculiarities of continental culture and continental history, and it has produced a law of

privacy that has been formed by the same culture and history.

       For persons who live in these continental cultures, there will always be some

practices that seem, in an intuitively obvious way, to represent violations of privacy. Yet

the same practices may not seem like violations at all to non- Europeans; and indeed,

there is nothing obvious at all about the proposition that are violations. They seem to be

violations, to people who have absorbed a particular set of values.

       As for Americans: They have their own concepts of personhood, their own

traditions, and their own values. And the consequence is that there will always be

practices that seem to represent obvious violations to Americans. Most especially, state

action will raise American hackles much more often than European ones.

       This is indeed almost too obvious to need describing for American readers.

Suspicion of the state has always stood at the foundation of American privacy thinking,

and American scholarly writing and court doctrine continues to take it for granted that the

state is the prime enemy of our privacy. To Americans, the starting point for the

understanding of the right to “privacy” is of course to be sought in the late eighteenth




                                                                                             81
century, and especially in the Bill of Rights, with its vigorous circumscription of state

power. In particular, “privacy” begins with the Fourth Amendment: At its origin, the

right to “privacy” is the right against unlawful searches and seizures. It is thus a right

that inheres in us as free and sovereign political actors, masters in our own houses, which

the state is ordinarily forbidden to invade. Over time, to the American mind, the early

Republican commitment to “privacy” has matured into a much more far-reaching right

against state intrusion into our lives.

        The classic statement of this American view came in 1886, at the same time that

European schola rs were developing their own characteristic ideas of privacy protections.

The case was Boyd v. U.S. In forbidding the government to seize the documents of a

merchant in a customs case, the Supreme Court, after discussing the eighteenth-century

background at length, issued an aggressive declaration of the “sanctity” of an American

home. The court focused on a cause célèbre of the eighteenth century: the case of John

Wilkes, the British political dissenter whose papers had been seized by government

agents. In 1762, Lord Camden had condemned such seizures in terms that helped inspire

the American Bill of Rights. The Court rehearsed Camden’s opinion—“a monument ,”

as the court put it—and then continued:

        The principles laid down in this opinion affect the very essence of constitutional

        liberty and security. They reach farther than the concrete form of the case then

        before the court, with its adventitious circumstances; they apply to all invasions

        on the part of the government and its employes of the sanctity of a man's home

        and the privacies of life. It is not the breaking of his doors, and the rummaging of

        his drawers, that constitutes the essence of the offence; but it is the invasion of his




                                                                                             82
        indefeasible right of personal security, personal liberty and private property,

        where that right has never been forfeited by his conviction of some public offence

        . . . . Breaking into a house and opening boxes and drawers are circumstances of

        aggravation; but any forcible and compulsory extortion of a man's own testimony

        or of his private papers to be used as evidence to convict him of crime or to forfeit

        his goods, is within the condemnation of that judgment. 257

In later generations, the Supreme Court retreated from its uncompromising stance on the

particular issue in Boyd, government access to papers. 258 Nevertheless, Boyd’s

fundamental understanding of “privacy” rights as generalizations of the principle of the

“sanctity of the home” has survived. Indeed, the standard history of modern American

privacy rights should really begin, not with Warren and Brandeis’ distant and dim echo of

continental ideas, but with Boyd v. The United States, four years earlier.

        To be sure, American scholars and judges have repeatedly tried to graft a

continental-style dignity standard on to this Fourth Amendment tradition. In the

twentieth century, the most familiar attempt of this kind came from Louis Brandeis

himself, by then a Supreme Court justice, writing to dissent from a 1928 holding that

wiretapping was not an invasion of privacy. Brandeis’ famous dissent in that case,

Olmstead v. U.S, recast his 1890 “right to privacy,” in a typically American way, as a

Fourth Amendment matter. This dissent is cited often and enthusiastically by privacy

advocates, but what is most remarkable about it is the way in which it lumped two

distinct concepts of privacy together—only one of which had a clear basis in

constitutional authority:

257
   Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 630 (1886).
258
   Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294 (1967); Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322 (1973); Fisher v. United
States, 425 U.S. 391 (1976).


                                                                                                    83
         The makers of our Constitution undertook to secure conditions favorable to the

         pursuit of happiness. They recognized the significance of man's spiritual nature,

         of his feelings and of his intellect. They knew that only a part of the pain, pleasure

         and satisfactions of life are to be found in material things. They sought to protect

         Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their emotions and their sensations.

         They conferred, as against the Government , the right to be let alone -- the most

         comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men. To protect

         that right, every unjustifiable intrusion by the Government upon the privacy of the

         individual, whatever the means employed, must be deemed a violation of the

         Fourth Amendment. 259

The “pursuit of happiness,” if it need be said, is of course not a phrase from the

Constitution. 260 What Brandeis was able to identify was a core constitutional right

against the state, which he tried—nobly, if you will—to extend well beyond its original

circumstances. Later Fourth Amendment jurisprudence took the same tack—for example

in Schmerber v. California, which described the Fourth Amendment as protecting

“privacy and dignity against unwarranted intrusion by the State.”261 Here again, though,

the reasoning was most emphatically about the state, with no discernible doctrinal content

given to the “dignity” interest.

         That tradition has now continued with Lawrence v. Texas, the Supreme Court’s

striking 2002 Term opinion on homosexuality: “Liberty,” the Lawrence opinion begins,

“protects the person from unwarranted government intrusions into a dwelling or other



259
    Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 478 (1928) (Brandeis, diss.).
260
    Pavesich v. New England L. Ins. Co., 122 Ga. 190, 50 S.E. 68 (1905).
261
    384 U.S. 757, 767 (1966).


                                                                                             84
private places.”262 This is familiar, indeed well-worn, American language, but it is not

the only language that the decision speaks. It also speaks the language of dignity:

Lawrence insists movingly on the right of gays not to be “demeaned,” on their right to

enjoy respect. 263 But once again, as has so long been the case, the Lawrence court finds

no doctrinal hook on which to hang its talk of “respect.” There is language about respect

in Lawrence, but there is little that can be said to count in any certain way as law. One

wonders indeed whether “respect,” as discussed by the Court in Lawrence, really has

much future in American law. (One hopes that it does. There is some authority that

insists on privacy protections for sexual orientation as an “intimate aspect of . . .

personality.”264 In other circumstances, too, dignity sometimes seems to play an

authentically important rule in the application of Fourth Amendment norms. . . . 265 ) One

hopes. History suggests, though, that such arguments will fade in American discourse

with time. This makes the prospects for a constitutionalized right to gay marriage, for

example, dim.

         What matters in America, over the long run, is liberty against the state within the

privacy of one’s home. This does not mean that the American approach to “privacy” is

narrowly limited to Fourth Amendment search and seizure problems, of course. Lawyers

do ingenious things, and the conception of privacy as liberty within the sanctity of the

home can be extended in important ways. This has been notably true, of course, in the

famous series of “constitutional privacy” decisions that began with Griswold v.




262
    Slip op., at 1.
263
    Slip op., 14-15.
264
    Sterling v. Borough of Minersville, 232 F.3d 190 (3d Cir. 2000).
265
    E.g. Lauro v. Charles, 219 F.3d 202 (2d Cir. 2000) (“perp walks” violate dignity interest).


                                                                                                  85
Connecticut. 266 At the limit, for those who accept the reasoning in Roe v. Wade, the

modern right to “privacy” is the right to keep the government from intervening in our

“private” decision about whether or not to abort an unwanted fetus; just as for others it is

the right keep from government from taking away our firearms. When private actors

breach the walls of our homes, they too may sometimes raise our legal hackles—like the

much-cited New Hampshire landlord of Hamberger v. Easton, who bugged his tenants’

bedroom. 267

        Nevertheless, the fundamental limit on American thinking always remains:

American “privacy” law, however ingenious its elaborations, always tends to imagine the

home as the primary defense, and the state as the primary enemy. This gives American

privacy law a distinctive coloration. Where American law perceives a threat to privacy, it

is typically precisely because the state has become involved in the transaction. The CNN

case makes a fine example. As we saw before, the Supreme Court saw no violation of

privacy rights when, in the Florida Star case, a newspaper published the name of a rape

victim. The result was different in CNN: There the Court found a violation of privacy

where a TV news crew went on a “ride-along” during a police raid. Once the police

come into it, American intuitions shift.268 Another important example is Whalen v. Roe,

the leading American informational privacy case. Predic tably, that was a case involving

government collection of private information. 269 Most generally, it is cases that seem to

involve criminal investigations of some kind are relatively easy calls for the protection of

266
    318 U.S. 479 (1965).
267
    Hamberger v. Eastman, 206 A.2d 239 (N.H.1964).
268
    Hanlon v. Berger, 119 S.Ct. 1706 (1999). See also the companion case, Wilson v. Layne, 526 U.S. 603
(1999); Oziel v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, 273 Cal. Rptr 196, 207 (Ct. App., 1990) also
worth discussion in the same context, is treated by Rosen, Unwanted Gaze, 42-43.
269
    433 U.S. 425 (1977). It is not clear how far the “right” established even in this case reaches. See
American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO v. Department of Housing & Urban
Development, 118 F.3d 786 (D.C. Cir. 1997).


                                                                                                     86
“privacy,” within the American tradition. 270 You can count on Americans to see privacy

violations once the state gets into the act-- in particular, where the issue can be somehow

analogized to penetration into the home, or sometimes the body. 271 Otherwise, you can

never be sure.

         But you can count on Americans to see violations once the state gets into the act,

and that means that there will always be continental practices that seem acceptable to

them but objectionable to us.

         This is certainly not, once again, because continental eyes perceive no dangers

emanating from the state. There are continental protections against searches and the like,

though in practice they are somewhat less extensive than American protections. 272 There

are also continental decisions like the well-known German census case, which limited


270
    See Ferguson v. City of Charleston, 532 U.S. 67 (2001) (drug testing an invasion of privacy where state
law enforcement involved).
271
    This is true despite the famous pronouncement in Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967), that
the Fourth Amendment “protects people, not places.” For the requirement of a “physical invasion”:
Silverman v. United States, 365 U.S. 505 (1961); and for the special place of the home, Payton v. New
York, 445 U.S. 573 (1980). For a famous obscenity case hanging on the penetration of the home: FCC v.
Pacifica Foundation, 438 U.S. 726 (1978). Compare Shulman v. Group W. Productions, Inc., 955 P.2d
469 (1998) (finding no violation where accident victim filmed and recorded at scene, but possible violation
where metaphorical or literal “zone of privacy” invaded). Cf. Rest. (2d) of Torts, §652B, comment c:
          The defendant is subject to liability under the rule stated in this Section only when he has intruded
          into a private place, or has otherwise invaded a private seclusion that the plaintiff has thrown
          about his person or affairs. Thus there is no liability for the examination of a public record
          concerning the plaintiff, or of documents that the plaintiff is required to keep and make available
          for public inspection. Nor is there liability for observing him or even taking his photograph while
          he is walking on the public highway, since he is not then in seclusion, and his appearance is public
          and open to the public eye. Even in a public place, however, there may be some matters about the
          plaintiff, such as his underwear or lack of it, that are not exhibited to the public gaze; and there
          may still be invasion of privacy when there is intrusion upon these matters.
Or again, conisder Erwin Chmerinsky defending the constitutionality of the California Anti-Paparazzi Act,
Cal. Civ. Code §1708.8. Chmerinsky takes his basic analysis from the Fourth Amendment: “simply put,
the law is constitutional because it substantially advances the government’s interest in safeguarding privacy
in the home.” Chmerinsky, Protect the Press: A First Amendment Standard for Safeguarding Aggressive
Newsgathering, 33 U. Rich. L. Rev. 1143, 1164 (2000). For penetration into the body, see Union Pacific
Railway v. Botsford, 141 U.S. 250 (1891); Cooley on Torts.
Not every court is willing to extend such “invasion of property” reasoning, though. See, e.g., Desnick v.
American Broadcasting Co., Inc., 44 F.3d 1345 (7th Cir. 1995) (Posner, C.J.) (declining to extend trespass
or Fourth Amendment reasoning in case of journalistic exposé).
272
    Damaska, Evidence Law Adrift, 13-14, 23-24.


                                                                                                           87
access to German census data. 273 Continental observers certainly understand how to

distrust the state in some cases, just as Americans certainly understand how to protect

people, in some cases, from embarrassing appropriations of their image. The differences

are relative, and not absolute, as always.

         Nevertheless, they are real differences, and they do mean that there are always

some continental practices that seem just as obviously untroubling to German or French

people as they seem obviously wrong to Americans. I offered numerous examples at the

beginning of this paper. For the sake of brevity, let me focus on just one before coming

to the conclusion of this paper: the law of names. Continental governments reserve to

themselves the right to refuse to register certain given names that parents have chosen for

their infants. This is done differently in different countries. In Germany, the local

registry office, the Standesamt, maintains a list of permissible names. 274 In France, the

state claims more limited powers, after a reform of 1993. Today in France, local officials

can issue a complaint if parents choose a name that those officials deem to be not in the

best interests of the newborn child. A court will then be seized of the matter, and will

decide if the name is an acceptable one. If it rejects the parents’ choice, the court itself is

to choose a name for the infant in question, if necessary. 275

         These are practices that seem strange indeed to Americans—how can a judge

name your baby?— but they are widely defended by Europeans. Most commonly,


273
274
    The regulations are to be found in the Dienstanweisung des Bundesinnenministeriums für Standesbeamte
und ihre Aufsichtsbehörden in der Fassung der Bekanntmachung vom 31.Januar 1995. All Germans, in
my experience, are well aware of this. For popular guides to the current state of affairs, consult
http://www.white-dreams.de/hochzeit/recht/kindernamen.htm or
http://www.geburtskanal.de/Wissen/N/Namensgebung_GeburtsanzeigeStandesamt.shtml .
275
    Code Civil, Art. 57. For a survey of the history of the French law of names, see Anne Lefebvre-Teillard,
Le Nom: Droit et Histoire (Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1990) and Nicole Lapierre, Changer de
Nom (n.p.: Stock, 1995).


                                                                                                         88
Europeans say that the state simply must intervene to protect children against the

stupidities of their parents. Indeed, to judge from my own conversations, the popular

mind is vividly conscious of the problem of parental stupidity. It is a problem that is

exemplified in particular, for ordinary Europeans, by the case of a French child named by

her parents “Mégane Renaud.” “Mégane” is the French version of the American name

“Megan.” It has been one of the most popular French baby names for some time.

“Mégane” is however also the name of a popular car model marketed by the French

manufacturer Renault (pronounced in the same way as “Renaud”). Thus two bits of

French popular culture came together in an unfortunate way when parents named

“Renaud” chose to call their newborn daughter “Mégane.” Local officials made a highly

publicized (though ultimately unsuccessful) intervention, apparently believing that it was

too much to saddle a child with a name something like the equivalent of “Camry

Toyota.”276 To judge from my own conversations, ordinary French people, who often

cite this case, seem to agree with them. There are other recent cases too, in which parents

have been prevented from giving their children names that are “ridiculous, pejorative or

in bad taste.”277 One Belgian woman, for example, was recently forbidden to name her

newborn “Anakin,” after the character in the Star Wars movie series. Despite her threat

to go on a hunger strike, officials decreed that her child was to be called “Dorian.”278

There is even European human rights law on the issue. The case in question involved a

French couple that chose to name their child “Fleur de Marie,” (“Mary’s Flower”) a name



276
    JCP 2001, IV.2655. The court’s opinon emphasized that the parents had had any “arrières-pensées”—
that is, any unacknowledged or ulterior intentions, and that the car model in question would likely go out of
production by the time the child reached school age.
277
    Discussion and citations in Méga Code Civil, 5th ed. (2003), commentary paragraph 3 to Art. 57, p. 177.
278
    Nach dem “Krieg der Sterne” Kampf un einen Vorname, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, January 18,
2000.


                                                                                                          89
rejected by local officials on the grounds that, since it was not a saints’ name, it was not

in the best interest of the child. That decision was litigated all the way the European

Court of Human Rights, which held, in 1996, over a dissent by an English judge, that the

law of names did not violate any right of privacy. 279

        All very strange, for Americans. To be sure, the law of names has been loosening

up, both in France and Germany. French law has eased up noticeably since the early

1990s.280 In the last few years, cases have been few in France—though the standard

commentary to the Civil Code speculates that this may be because pre-litigation

interventions by officials are sufficient to discourage unacceptable names. 281 As for

Germany: There, the most important challenges to the law of names came from the many

resident non-Germans wishing to give their children ethnic names. The German

government responded essentially by extending its list to include acceptable names for all

recognized ethnic groups. These days, Germans can theoretically pick any name that

comes from some culture, as long as it appears in the official “International Handbook of

Given Names” and is spelled correctly. 282 (In my experience, though, few Germans

realize how much latitude they have.) At any rate, the European law of names is

certainly not applied in a doctrinaire or draconian way. It is complex body of law, in a

state of some flux, which deserves a longer treatment than I can give it here.

279
    CEDH 24 oct. 1996, Guillot c/ France.
280
    Especially since law no. 93-22 of the 8. January, 1993, modifying Art. 57 of the Code Civil.
281
    Prefatory commentary to Art. 57 in the Méga Code Civil, p.177.
282
    The current standard list can be found in the Internationales Handbuch der Vornamen, ed. Otto Nüssler
and Gerhard Müller, rev. ed. (Bad Salzschlirf: Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache/Bundesverband der
deutschen Standesbeamten und Standesbeamtinnen, 2002). For a description of this essential text for local
German officials, see http://www.vfst.de/xml/fachliteratur_produkt.html?produktid=202. For the case of a
woman who went too far, choosing twelve names for her child as a multi-cultural statement, see Zwölf
Names sprengen den Personalausweis, Süddeutsche Zeitung, 21/22 June, 2000, p. 16. An interesting Nazi-
era baby-naming pamphlet is L. Lechner, Die Namensgebung (Erfurt: Sigrune, [1938]). It includes not
only a list of good German names, but also carefully scripted naming ceremonies, featuring swastika
banners, pictures of the Führer, hymns to be recited by small children, and so on.


                                                                                                      90
       Nevertheless, however complex it may be, its very existence is simply weird to

Americans. Indeed, if you tried to introduce a law of names into a state like Texas, you

might face an armed rebellion. But does that mean that it is wrong or evil, by some

universal standard, to have such a law of names? Europeans can see benefits in it—just

as Americans can see benefits in extensive credit reporting. But the issue, here as in

credit reporting, is not whether there are or are not identifiable benefits. The issue is

whether a given privacy violation seems to fly in the face of fundamentally important

social values. For Americans, the answer is very likely to be that the continental law of

names does exactly that—flies in the face of important values of liberty. They may note

that African Americans in particular, a historically oppressed population, express their

independence partly through inventing unusual names for their children. But in any case,

here as elsewhere, Americans will see an unacceptable violation of privacy where the

state introduces itself into any “private” decision. Indeed, if drawn to defend themselves

philosophically, Americans may use exactly the same imposing language of

“personhood” that Europeans use in defending their conceptions of privacy. Is not the

name fundamental to the making of the person?



                                              IX

       I will not try to answer that last question, because the correct concept of

personhood is not what is at stake here. What is at stake are two different core sets of

values: On the one hand, a European interest in personal dignity, threatened primarily by

the mass media; on the other hand, an American interest in liberty, threatened primarily

by the government. On both sides of the Atlantic, these values are founded on deeply- felt




                                                                                            91
socio-political ideals, whose histories reach back to the revolutionary era of the later

eighteenth century.

        These different core values do not, to say it one last time, completely dictate the

shape of the law on either side of the Atlantic. The contrast, like all such contrasts, is

relative and not absolute. Moreover there is no logical inconsistency in pursuing both

forms of privacy protection: It is perfectly possible to advocate both privacy against the

state and privacy against non-state information gatherers—to argue that protecting

privacy means both safeguarding the presentation of self, and inhibiting the investigative

and regulatory excesses of the state. Indeed, American advocates of “privacy” typically

do just that, denouncing the threat to “privacy” indiscriminately, as coming both from the

state and from the media. There is nothing illogical in this.

       Nevertheless, the emphases and sensibilities of the law on either side of the

Atlantic remain stubbornly different, whatever careful philosophical logic might allow or

dictate. Privacy law is not the product of logic. Nor for that matter is it the product of

“experience” or of supposed “felt necessities” that are shared in all “modern” societies. It

is the product of local social anxieties and local ideals. In the United States those

anxieties and ideals focus principally the police and other officials, and around the

ambition “to secure the blessings of liberty”; while on the continent they focus on the

ambition to guarantee everyone’s position in society, to guarantee everyone’s “honor.”

This was already true in 1791, in the French Revolution of Jérôme Pétion, and it remains

true today.

       This is not something we will ever understand if we do not get beyond the sort of

shallow intuitionism that is the stuff of most of our privacy literature. Indeed, it is a basic




                                                                                             92
error to try to explain or justify any aspect of the law by appealing to our unmediated

intuitions about what seems evil or horrible. That kind of crude intuitionist approach has

been rejected by most moral philosophers—most famously by Rawls, who insisted that

good moral reasoning is founded on a “reflective equilibrium” between intuitions and

rational moral theory. 283 Crude intuitionism is pretty much dead among moral

philosophers, and it ought to be dead in the law too. Indeed, if anything, that sort of

intuitionism is less acceptable in the law than it is in other realms of moral reasoning. In

liberal western societies, law is regarded as a weapon of last resort, to be drawn only

when authentically fundamental values of society are at stake. This has a consequence

that deserves to be stated over and over again: It is in the very nature of being a member

of a liberal society that one must live with many things that seem horrible. If the sort of

arguments mounted by privacy advocates were valid, many things indeed would be

forbidden. Take only the example of adultery. One could easily offer an argument about

adultery that took the same form as the arguments commonly offered in our privacy

literature: Picture, one might say, your spouse having sex with someone else. Isn’t it

horrible? Horrible it may be, for most of us. But that does not decide the question of

what the law should do about adultery. To decide that question, we must reflect on other,

larger, values—most particularly, on values of liberty.

           The same is true of the law of privacy. We cannot simply start by asking

ourselves whether “privacy violations” are intuitively “horrible” or “nightmarish.” The

job is harder than that. We have to identify the fundamental values that are at stake in the

“privacy” question as it is understood in a given society. The task is not to realize the

true universal values of “privacy” in every society. The law puts more limits on us than
283
      Rawls, A Theory of Justice, rev. ed. (Cambridge: Harvard U. Press, 1999), at 18-19 and often.


                                                                                                      93
that: The law will not work as law, unless it seems to people to embody the basic

commitments of their society. In practice, this means that the real choice, in the Atlantic

world at least, is between social traditions strongly oriented toward liberty, and social

traditions strongly oriented toward dignity. This is choice that goes well beyond the law

of privacy: It is a choice that involves all the areas of law that touch, more or less nearly,

on questions of dignity.

       We can respond to this choice by refusing to make it: We can opt for a world in

which societies just do things differently. But if we decide that we find the American

world of “privacy”—or the European world of “privacy”—unacceptable, we must face

the fact that change is not going to come without a hard struggle over basic values.

American law in particular moves unmistakably in the gravitational field of liberty; and

however much we may feel drawn to the universe of dignity, we must always fight

against a powerful pull in a different direction. In the end, making continental ideas of

privacy work in America means convincing Americans of a very grand proposition: It

means convincing them that continental “honor” is the sort of value that matters, in just

the way that liberty matters. There is little reason to suppose that Americans will think of

their world of values in that way anytime soon.




                                                                                            94
