2025/12/20 17:12                                                     The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System


                                    SEARCH         LOGIN ABOUT  REFERENCES  PARTICIPATE  WORKS IN PROGRESS                                                                                                                                                                                         




                                                                                                    Topics            Departments                Social Credit              Site Index           Glossary         ENGLISH HOME


                                   AFFILIATED WITH




                                   Turn on Translator mode
                                     Edit

                                   NEWSLETTER


                                      Email

                                                         Subscribe


                                   CRIMINAL

                                                        Public Security
                                                        Administration
                                                        Punishments Law (2025)

                                                  Interpretation of Several
                                                  Issues Concerning the
                                                  Application of Law in
                                                  Handling Criminal Cases of
                                   Attacks on Police Officers

                                                        Joint Discipline Measures
                                                        for Telecommunications
                                                        Network Fraud and Related
                                                        Violations and Crimes


                                   ADMINISTRATION
                                                                                                        The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving
                                                 Regulations on Procedures
                                                 for Formulating                                        Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary
                                                 Administrative Regulations
                                                 (Revision Draft for                                    Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of
                                   Soliciting Comments )

                                                        Guidelines for Online
                                                                                                        the Social Credit System
                                                                                                        BY CHINA LAW TRANSLATE ON 2016/08/15
                                                        Transaction Platforms'
                                                        Compliance in Charging
                                                        Fees (Draft for Solicitation                                    ：
                                                                                                          Index number: 000014349/2016-00117
                                   of Comments)                                                           Subject category:Public finance, financial, auditing establishment of social credit system
                                                                                                          Issuing Organ:State Council
                                                Interpretation on Several
                                                                                                          Document date:2016/05/30
                                                Issues Regarding the
                                                Application of Law in
                                                                                                          Title:The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint
                                                                                                          Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System
                                                Administrative Open
                                   Government Information Cases                                           Release Number:Legal Release (2016) No. 33
                                                                                                          Release date:6/12/2016
                                   LABOR
                                                                                                        The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness
                                                 Notice on the Release of                               and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System
                                                 the System for the
                                                 Elimination of Sexual                                  Legal Release (2016) No. 33
                                                 Harassment in the
                                   Workplace (Reference Text) and System                                People’s governments of provinces, autonomous regions, and cities directly under the jurisdiction of central government,
                                   for Special Workplace Protections of
                                   Female Workers (Reference Text)                                      and all State Council ministries and commissions and directly managed agencies:
                                                                                                        Establishing a sound social credit system and accelerating the construction of a new form of market regulatory system with
                                                        Measures for the Hiring
                                                        and Management of                               credit as its core, is conducive to further promoting decentralization and transformation of government functions and to
                                                        Foreign Teachers (Draft for                     creating a fair and honest market environment. The following Opinions are hereby put forth so as to establish and improve
                                                        Solicitation of Comments)                       systems for joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness, accelerating the
                                          Notice on Relevant                                            establishment of social creditworthiness.
                                          Safeguards for Medical                                        I. General Requirements
                                          Care Workers and Related
                     Translate            Staff Infected with the
                             Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Due to the                                     (1) Guiding Thought.
                             Performance of Work Duties

                                                                                                        Comprehensively implement the spirit of the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China and its third, fourth,
                                   MORE CATEGORIES
                                                                                                        and fifth plenary sessions; deeply implement the spirit of General Secretary Xi Jinping's series of important speeches; follow
                                    Select Category                                                     the decisions and deployments of the CPC Central Committee and State Council, closely revolving around the strategic
                                                                                                        arrangement of the “Four Comprehensives;” firmly establishing the concepts of innovation, coordination, greenness,
                                                                                                        openness and shared development; implementing, strengthening and innovating the requirements for social governance,
                                                                                                        and accelerating the development of the social credit system, strengthening credit information disclosure and sharing, using
                                                                                                        credit incentives and restraint measures in accordance with laws and regulations; to build cross-regional, interdepartmental
                                                                                                        and cross-industry mechanisms for the joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for
                                                                                                        untrustworthiness that are participated in jointly by the government and public; promoting market participants' good faith
                                                                                                        operations, preserving normal market order, and creating a creditworthy social environment.

                                                                                                        (2) Basic Principles.


                                                                                                        - Praise creditworthiness, discipline untrustworthiness. Fully utilize credit incentives and constraints, increasing the extent
                                                                                                        of incentives for trustworthy entities and of disciplinary actions for seriously untrustworthy entities, letting the trustworthy
                                                                                                        receive benefits and the untrustworthy be subject to restrictions, forming systemic mechanisms for praising honesty and
                                                                                                        disciplining untrustworthiness.




https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/6
2025/12/20 17:12                                                The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System

                                   --Concerted departmental action, and social coordination. Through the disclosure and sharing of credit information,
                                   establish cross-region, interdepartmental, and cross-sector mechanisms for joint incentives and joint disciplinary action,
                                   forming a common governance structure in which government departments coordinate their concerted action, industry
                                   organizes self-discipline and management, credit service organizations actively participate, and there is broad supervision
                                   by public sentiment.

                                   --Protection of rights and interests in accordance with laws and regulations. Strictly follow laws, regulations, and policies to
                                   scientificly deliniate trustworthy and untrustworthy conduct, developing joint incentives for trustworthiness, and joint
                                   disciplinary action for untrustworthiness Establish and complete mechanisms for credit restoration, objections, appeals and
                                   so forth, to protect parties' lawful rights and interests.

                                   -- Focus on key points, coordinate advancement. Persist in being problem-oriented, striving to resolve credit issues in key
                                   industries that are currently harmful to the public interest and public safety, on which the masses have given strong
                                   feedback, or which have caused a serious negative impact on economic and social development. Encourage and support
                                   innovations and demonstrations by local people's governments and relevant departments, gradually expanding mechanisms
                                   for joint incentivizing of trustworthiness and joint discipline of untrustworthiness to all areas of the economy and society.
                                   II. Establish sound mechanisms for praising and incentivizing trustworthy conduct.

                                   (3) Select and establish exemplars of creditworthiness from multiple channels. Have administrative counterparts with good
                                   credit circumstances, models of creditworthiness and moralilty, and exceptional youth volunteers that are identified through
                                   relevant departments and social organizations' implementation of categorical credit management; as well as creditworthy
                                   members recommended by industry associations and chambers of commerce, and creditworthy entities uncovered by news
                                   media; be put up as exemplars of creditworthiness. Encourage relevant departments and social organizations to establish
                                   credit records for all kinds of entities in the course of supervision and services, and publicly recommend those without any
                                   negative credit records and exemplars of creditworthiness, joining together with other departments and social organizations
                                   to carry out incentives for trustworthiness. Encourage industry associations and chambers of commerce to improve
                                   mechanisms for assessing credit of member enterprises. Guide enterprises to actively release comprehensive credit
                                   assurances, or special assurances, such as on the quality of goods and services, and develop public self-declarations such as
                                   on standards for goods and services, accepting social oversight and forming a positive atmosphere for enterprises to be a
                                   model for honesty.

                                   (4) Explore the establishment of "green channels" for administrative approvals. In the course of handling administrative
                                   permits, facilitation service measures such as "green channels" and "permissive acceptance" [acceptance despite defects in
                                   materials] may be used for administrative counterparts who are models of honesty, or who have not had any negative credit
                                   information recorded for three consecutive years. For eligible administrative counterparts, where some of the declaration
                                   materials are incomplete, if a written assurance is given that they will be provided within a given time, they should be
                                   accepted to expedite the progress of handling, except where laws or regulations require their provision,

                                   (5) Priority provision of public services. In the implementation of financial capital arrangements, preferential investment
                                   incentive policies and all other types of preferential treatment policy, priority is to be given to creditworthy market entities,
                                   expanding the degree of support. In education, employment, entrepreneurship, social security and other areas, key support
                                   and priority facilitation is to be given to creditworthy individuals. In transactions involving public resources, promote
                                   measures such as giving extra points to creditworthy market entities in accordance with laws and agreements.

                                   (6) Optimize administrative supervision arrangements for creditworthy enterprises. All levels of department for market
                                   supervision should emphasize the use of big data methodology, on the basis of the types of credit record and credit
                                   appraisals of the subjects of supervision, to improve supervision measures during and after incidents, and provide
                                   facilitation services to market entities. For enterprises that meet certain requirements, optimize the frequency of routine
                                   and special inspections.

                                   (7) Reduce market transaction costs. Encourage relevant departments and units to develop "easy tax loans", "easy credit
                                   loans", "easy credit debt" and other products incentivizing trustworthiness; guiding financial instititutions, commerical sales
                                   institutions and other market services institutions to consider using market entity credit information, credit scores, and
                                   credit assesment conclusions, to give preference and facilitation for creditworthy market entities, and cause the trustworthy
                                   to receive more opportunities and benefits from the marketplace.

                                   (8) Strongly recommend creditworthy market entities. Relevant departments of all levels of people's government should
                                   promptly publish creditworthy market entities' positive credit information on government websites and the "China Credit"
                                   website, and strongly recommend creditworthy enterprises at activities such as exhibitions and bank-enterprise connections,
                                   making credit a major factor for consideration in market allocation of resources. Guide credit institutions to strengthen the
                                   collection of market entities' positive information, giving the trustworthy increased incentives such as added points in
                                   industries where creditworthiness is a a more concentrated problem. Promote industry associations and chambers of
                                   commerce's strengthening of creditworthiness and industry self-discipline, commending creditworthy members, and
                                   recounting "stories of creditworthiness" in the industry.

                                   III. Establish mechanisms for constraining and punishing untrustworthy conduct.

                            (9) Carry out joint disciplinary action in key industries and for serious untrustworthy conduct. On the foundation of relevant
                     Translate
                            departments' and social organizations' handling and appraisal of untrustworthy conduct in accordance with laws and
                                   regulations, share information to promote other relevant departments' and social organizations' adoption of joint
                                   disciplinary actions against serious untrustworthy conduct in accordance with laws and regulations. Key points include: First
                                   is conduct that seriously endangers the public's physical health and security in their lives, including serious untrustworthy
                                   conduct in areas such as food and drugs, ecology and environment, project quality, production safety, fire safety, and
                                   mandatory product certifications. Second is conduct that seriously undermines the order of fair marketplace competition or
                                   the normal social order, including serious untrustworthy conduct such as bribery, tax evasion or fraud, malicious debt
                                   evasion, malicious delay in payment of debts or for services, malicious delay in paying wages, illegal fund-raising, contract
                                   fraud, pyramid sales, operating a business without a license, production or sale of fake or shoddy goods, intentional
                                   infringement of intellectual property rights, leasing or lending bidding qualifications, collusive bidding, false advertising,
                                   infringing the lawful rights and interests of consumers or securities investors, seriously undermining the order of cyberspace
                                   transmissions, and assembling to disrupt social order. Third is acts of refusal to perform legally prescribed obligations,
                                   seriously impacting the credibility of judicial or administrative organs; including untrustworthy conduct such as where, after
                                   judicial or administrative organs make a judgment or decision, parties have the ability to perform on it but refuse to perform
                                   or evade enforcement. Fourth is refusal to perform national defense obligations, such as refusing or avoiding military
                                   service, refusing or delaying the expropriation of civil-use resources or impeding the modification of expropriated civil-use
                                   resources, endangering national defense interests or destroying national defense facilities.

                                   (10) Strengthen administrative constraints and punishments of untrustworthy conduct, in accordance with laws and
                                   regulations. For seriously untrustworthy entities, all regions and all relevant departments should list them as key targets for
                                   supervision, employing administrative constraint and punishment measures in accordance with laws and regulations.
                                   Strictly review for administrative permits and review and approval of projects, strictly control the issuance of production
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2/6
2025/12/20 17:12                                                The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System

                                   licenses, restrict approvals of additional projects, restrict issuance of stocks on the market or issuance of bonds, restrict
                                   listing or financing in the national stock exchange, restrict the establishment or shareholding in financial institutions or
                                   small loan companies and finance guarantee companies, venture capital companies, internet financing platforms, and other
                                   such institutions, restrict engagement in internet information services, and so forth. Strictly restrict applications for
                                   government capital projects, restrict participation in public resource trading activities, and restrict participation in
                                   infrastructure and public utility franchises. Implement measures restricting market and industry entrance for enterprises
                                   with serious untrustworthy conduct as well as their legally-designated representatives, principle responsible persons, and
                                   registered practitioners with direct responsibility for the untrustworthy conduct. Promptly revoke honorifics given to
                                   seriously untrustworthy enterprises and persons such as their legally-designated representatives, responsible parties, senior
                                   management, and directors and shareholders with direct responsibility for the untrustworthy conduct, and cancel their
                                   eligibility to be selected and recognized for excellence.

                                   (11) Strengthen market constraints and punishments for untrustworthy conduct. The relevant departments and institutions
                                   should index seriously untrustworthy entities according to a uniform social credit code, promptly releasing relevant
                                   information publicly, to facilitate market recognition of untrustworthy conduct and vigilance against untrustworthy conduct.
                                   Urge relevant enterprises and individuals to perform legally prescribed obligations, and for seriously untrustworthy entities
                                   that have the ability to perform but refuse to do so, restrict their exiting the country and purchase of real property, travel by
                                   plane, travel by higher class train seat, travel and vacation, stays in star-rated hotels, and other high-spending conduct.
                                   Support credit reporting institutions in collecting information on serious untrustworthy conduct and including it in credit
                                   records and credit reports. Guide commercial banks, securities and futures businesses, insurance companies, and other
                                   financial instititutions to follow the principle of pricing based on risk, to increase interest rates on loans and insurance rates
                                   for seriously untrustworthy entities, or to limit the provision of services to them such as giving loans, guarantees,
                                   underwriting, and insurance.

                                   (12) Strengthen industry constraints and punishments of untrustworthy conduct. Establish and complete agreements on
                                   industry self-discipline and professional ethics codes, promoting the establishment of industry credit. Guide industry
                                   associations and chambers of commerce to complete internal industry credit information collection and sharing
                                   mechanisms, recording serious untrustworthy conduct in members' credit archives. Encourage industry associations and
                                   chambers of commerce to cooperate with qualified third party credit service institutions, to carry out credit rating and
                                   assessment of members. Support industry associations and chambers of commerce in giving punitive measures such as
                                   warnings, circulating criticisms, publicly censure, non-acceptance, and expulsion to untrustworthy members, on the basis of
                                   industry standards, rules, and agreements, and in light of the seriousness.

                                   (13) Strengthen social constraint and punishment of untrustworthy acts. Fully bring into play the function of all kinds of
                                   social organizations, guiding social forces to broadly participate in joint disciplinary action against untrustworthiness.
                                   Establish and improve systems for reporting untrustworthiness, encouraging the public to report enterprises with serious
                                   untrustworthy conduct, and maintaining strict confidentiality of reporters' information. Support relevant social
                                   organizations in raising public interest litigation in accordance with law against mass torts such as environmental pollution
                                   and violations of consumers' or public investors' lawful rights and interests. Encourage fair and independent social
                                   institutions with the capacity to carry out big data monitoring of public sentiment on untrustworthy acts, assembling and
                                   publishing regional and industry credit analysis reports.

                                   (14) Improve personal credit records, promote joint disciplinary action measures implementation down to the individual.
                                   When enterprises and public institutions' serious untrustworthy conduct is entered into their credit records, it should be
                                   simultaneously entered into the personal credit records of their legally-designated representative, principle responsible
                                   person, and other directly responsible personnel. At the same time that joint disciplinary action is conducted against
                                   untrustworthy enterprises and public institutions, corresponding joint disciplinary action should be taken against the
                                   relevant responsible persons, in accordance with laws, regulations, and policies. By establishing a complete database of
                                   individual credit records and joint disciplinary action mechanisms, make punishment measures for untrustworthiness reach
                                   down to the individual.

                                   IV. Build mechanisms for coordinating joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for
                                   untrustworthiness.


                                   (15) Establish feedback trigger mechanisms. Under the Interdepartmental Joint Conference System for Establishment of the
                                   Social Credit System, establish mechanisms for the initiation of and response to joint incentives for trustworthiness and
                                   joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness. Departments in all areas that initiate joint incentives for trustworthiness and
                                   joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness are responsible for determining the targets for incentives or punishment;
                                   implementation departments are responsible for employing the joint incentives or joint disciplinary actions against relevant
                                   entities.


                                   (16) Implement coordination between ministries and provinces, and concerted action across regions. Encourage all areas to
                                   initiate coordination between ministries and provinces, and cross-region joint incentives and punishments for exemplars of
                                   creditworthiness and seriously untrustworthy entities, within their administrative jurisdictions. Give full play to the
                                   guidance function of the Interdepartmental Joint Conference System for Establishment of the Social Credit System,
                                   establishing and completing cross-regional, interdepartmental, and cross-industry cooperative mechanisms for establishing
                                   the social credit system, and strengthen the sharing of credit information and the mutual recognition of credit appraisal
                            results.
                     Translate

                                   (17) Establish and improve mechanisms for publication of credit information. Promote disclosure of credit information in
                                   government affairs, comprehensively putting in place systems for online disclosure of administrative approvals and
                                   administrative punishments. Except as otherwise provided by law, people's governments at the county level or above, and
                                   their departments, should disclose all types of information such as administrative approvals and administrative punishment
                                   for natural persons, legal persons, or other organizations, through the government websites within 7 business days, and
                                   promptly aggregate it on the "China Credit" website, to provide society with 'one-stop' credit inquiry services. Information
                                   related to enterprises should be disclosed on the enterprise credit information publicity system in accordance with the
                                   Provisional Regulations on Release of Enterprise Information. Promote judicial organs' release of judicial judgments, the
                                   Judgment Defaulters List, and other credit information on the "China Credit" website.

                                   (18) Establish and complete mechanisms for aggregating, sharing, and using credit information. Rely on the national
                                   electronic external network for government affairs to establish a national credit information sharing platform, giving play to
                                   its role as a hub for aggregating and sharing credit information. Accelerate the establishment and completion of credit
                                   information sharing platforms for all provinces (regions, municipalities) and credit information systems for all industries,
                                   promoting the establishment of projects such as a youth volunteers credit information system, aggregating the entirety of
                                   that region or that industry's credit information, and bringing about inter-connectivity and information sharing with the
                                   national credit information sharing platform. Relying on the national credit information sharing platform and on the basis of
                                   memoranda of cooperation signed by relevant departments, establish a credit information management system for joint
                                   incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness, to bring about dynamic coordination
                                   functions such as initiation and response, information transfer, enforcement feedback, credit restoration, and handling of
                                   objections. All levels of people's government and their departments should make inquiries to the national credit information
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3/6
2025/12/20 17:12                                                The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System

                                   sharing platform an embedded part of the work process for approvals and oversight and management work, ensuring that
                                   ;those that need to be checked are checked' and that 'rewards and punishments are in place. Complete mechanisms for
                                   information sharing between government and credit institutions, financial institutions, industry associations and chambers
                                   of commerce, and other such organizations, advancing the interaction and merging of government affairs credit information
                                   and social credit information, bringing into play the functions of joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary
                                   action for untrustworthiness to the greatest extent possible.

                                   (19) Standardize systems of red [positive] and black lists for credit information. Continuously improve the 'red list' system for
                                   exemplars of creditworthiness, and the 'black list' of seriously untrustworthy entities, standardizing the production and
                                   release of red and black lists across fields in accordance with laws and regulations, and establishing and completing
                                   mechanisms for removal from the list. With the prerequisite of preserving independence, fairness and objectivity, encourage
                                   relevant mass organizations, financial institutions, credit institutions, rating institutions, industry associations and
                                   chambers of commerce, and so forth, to provide 'red list' and 'black list' information they produce to government departments
                                   for their consideration and use.

                                   (20) Establish a system for listing incentives and punishments. On the basis of memoranda of cooperation in relevant fields,
                                   organize laws, regulations, and policies to clarify matters on joint incentives and punishments, establish lists of measures for
                                   joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness, principly dividen into two categories:
                                   The first are mandatory measures, incentives and punishments that must be jointly enforced in accordance with law; and the
                                   other type are recommended measures that fit the policy orientation of praising creditworthiness and punishing
                                   untrustworthiness, and all areas and all departments may implement based on actual conditions. The Interdepartmental
                                   Joint Conference System for Establishment of the Social Credit System will summarize experiences to continuously improve
                                   the lists of both kind of measures, and promote the establishment of relevant laws and regulations.


                                   (21) Establish and complete credit restoration mechanisms. The departments initiating and implementing joint disciplinary
                                   actions should follow the laws, regulations and policies to clarify the time period for all types of joint disciplinary action.
                                   Where the untrustworthy conduct is corrected during that period and the negative impact is eliminated, they are no longer a
                                   target of joint disciplinary action. Establish mechanisms for social encouragement and social care that are conducive to self-
                                   correction and actively turning over a new leaf, support individuals with untrustworthy conduct in restoring their personal
                                   credit through means such as public service.


                                   (22) Establish and complete mechanisms for entities' protection of credit rights and interests. Establish and complete
                                   systems for objections and complaints on credit information. When relevant departments and units implementing joint
                                   disciplinary action measures for untrustworthiness learn that information is not accurate, whether through active discovery
                                   or through a market entity raising an objection or complaint, they should promptly notify the unit that provided the
                                   information to verify it, and that unit should verify and give feedback as quickly as possible. Enforcement of joint
                                   disciplinary action measures is temporarily stopped while the information is verified. Information that is found to be
                                   incorrect upon verification should be promptly corrected or withdrawn. Where the incorrect adoption of joint disciplinary
                                   action measures harms the lawful rights and interests of an entity, relevant departments and units should actively employ
                                   measures to restore their reputation and eliminate negative impact. Support relevant entities in preserving their own rights
                                   through means such as administrative reconsiderations and administrative litigation.


                                   (23) Establish performance tracking mechanisms. All areas and all relevant departments should establish and improve all
                                   systems for the work of joint credit incentives and punishments, fully exploiting the national credit information sharing
                                   platform and relevant credit information management systems to establish and complete follow up, monitoring, statistics,
                                   and assessment mechanisms for joint credit incentives and punishments, and establish correspoding supervisory inspections
                                   and performance evaluation systems. Give notice and urge corrections where departments or units inadequately implement
                                   the collection and sharing of credit information and the incentive and punishment measures, to truly make each joint
                                   incentive and joint disciplinary action measure reach its goal.

                                   V. Strengthen the system of laws and regulations and the establishment of a culture of creditworthiness.


                                   (24) Improve relevant laws and regulations. Continuously research and debate legislation in the field of social credit.
                                   Accelerate research on legislation in areas such advancing the aggregation, sharing, disclosure, and use of credit
                                   information, as well as joint disciplinary action against untrustworthiness. In accordance with the requirement of
                                   strengthening credit restraints and coordinated management, each region and each department should submit amendment
                                   suggestions or conduct targeted revisions for relevant provisions of all current laws, regulations, rules, and normative
                                   documents.


                                   (25) Establish and improve standards. Draft standards for collection, storage, sharing, disclosure, and use of credit
                                   information and for credit appraisals and categorical management of credit. Determine specifications for the establishment
                                   of all levels of credit information sharing platform, unifying data formats and data interfaces, and other such technical
                                   requirements. All regions and all departments should summarize actual conditions to draft work processes and operational
                                   specifications for credit information aggregation, sharing, disclosure, and use, as well as for joint incentives and joint
                                   disciplinary action.


                            (26) Strengthen education on creditworthiness, and the establishment of a culture of creditworthiness. Organize social
                            forces on all sides, guiding the broader market entities to operate with creditworthiness in accordance with law, set up the
                     Translate
                            idea of a 'prosperous good faith economy' organizing news media publicity on credit worthy enterprises and individuals
                                   through multiple channels, creating a strong social atmosphere. Strengthen moral constraints on untrustworthy conduct,
                                   improve mechanisms for supervising societal public opinion, using print, radio, television, and online media to expand the
                                   extent of supervision for untrustworthy entities, lawfully exposing heinous cases of untrustworthiness where the
                                   circumstances are serious, carrying out activities such as public deliberation, discussion, and appraisal; making pressure
                                   from public opinion and moral constraints on serious untrustworthy conduct. Strengthen education and aid to the
                                   untrustworthy through schools, units, communities, and families, and guide them to promptly correct their untrustworthy
                                   conduct. Strengthen publicity and education about creditworthiness for enterprises' responsible parties, students, and youth
                                   groups; strengthen the establishment of professional ethics with creditworthy as a key content for key personnel groups
                                   such as accountants, auditors, tour guides, insurance brokers, and public personnel. Expand promotional reporting and case
                                   analysis for joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness, carrying forward the core
                                   socialist values.

                                   (27) Strengthen organizational implementation and supervisory inspections. All areas and all relevant departments should
                                   make implementation of joint incentives for trustworthiness and joint disciplinary action for untrustworthiness an
                                   important measure for promoting the establishment of the social credit system, earnestly implementing these opinions and
                                   formulating specific implementation plans to truly strengthen organizational leadership, put necessary guarantees in place
                                   such as for work organizations, personnel allotments, and program fees, ensuring that all joint incentive and joint
                                   punishment measures are done adequately. Encourage relevant regions and departments to take the lead in experimenting,
                                   using the signing of memoranda of cooperation, issuing normative documents, and other various means to establish long-
                                   term effective mechanisms and continuously enrich the content of credit incentives and strengthen credit constraint


https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4/6
2025/12/20 17:12                                                The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System

                                   measures. The National Development and Reform Commission should strengthen overall coordination, promptly follow up
                                   to get a hold on work progress, supervise and inspect the implementation of tasks, and report this to the State Council.

                                   State Council
                                   May 30, 2016
                                   (for public release)


                                                                                                             Click to rate this post!
                                                                                                                [Total: 0 Average: 0]


                                         Author profile                  Related entries




                                                                     China Law Translate
                                                                     CLT is a crowdsourced, crowdfunded legal translation project that enables English speaking people to better
                                                                     understand Chinese law.




                                   Related Posts:

                                    1. Opinions on Accelerating and Advancing the Construction of Credit Supervision, Warning and Punishment
                                       Mechanisms for Judgement Defaulters
                                    2. Guiding Opinion on the Establishment of a Personal Creditworthiness System
                                    3. Hubei Provincial Social Credit Information Management Regulations (Revised Draft) for Solicitation of Public
                                       Comments
                                    4. Zhejiang Provincial Regulations on the Management of Public Credit Information



                                   Published in State Council



                                   One Comment

                                             Giving credit
                                             2017/01/04


                                   […] social credit system is that the credit score should have far-reaching consequences, including both rewards and punishments. The idea is
                                   that creditworthiness, something larger than traditional credit, is not […]

                                   Reply



                                   Leave a Reply
                                   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

                                   Comments




                                   Name*

                                      Jane Doe

                                   Email*

                                      name@email.com

                                   Website

                                      http://google.com
                     Translate

                                                I am human
                                                                              Privacy - Terms



                                       Post Comment




                                                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                                             USER AGREEMENT                    About Us            Getting Started


https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5/6
2025/12/20 17:12                                                The State Council Guiding Opinions on Establishing and Improving Systems of Joint Incentives for Trustworthiness and Joint Disciplinary Action for Untrustworthiness and Accelerating the Establishment of the Social Credit System
                                                                                                                                           Mission News Theme by Compete Themes.




                     Translate




https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/public-opinion-response/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6/6
