2025/12/22 1:51                           The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




              EPIC needs your support to be an independent voice challenging
              Big Tech and government data abuses in 2026. Defend Privacy.
              Support EPIC.
              epic.org/donate




          The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)
          The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), Public Law No. 91-508, was enacted in 1970 to promote accuracy,
          fairness, and the privacy of personal information assembled by Credit Reporting Agencies (CRAs).

          CRAs assemble credit reports on individuals for businesses, including credit card companies, banks,
          employers, landlords, and others. CRAs may also be referred to as “credit bureaus” or “consumer
          reporting agencies.” A credit report is a record of how you have borrowed and repaid debts. Almost every
          adult American has a credit file with each of the three major national credit bureaus: Experian, Equifax,
          and TransUnion.

          The FCRA provides important consumer protections for credit reports, consumer investigatory reports,
          and employment background checks. The FCRA is a complex statute that has been significantly altered
          since 1970 by Congress and the courts. The Act’s primary protection requires that CRAs follow
          “reasonable procedures” to protect the confidentiality, accuracy, and relevance of credit information. To
          do so, the FCRA establishes a framework of Fair Information Practices for personal information that
          include rights of data quality (right to access and correct), data security, use limitations, requirements
          for data destruction, notice, user participation (consent), and accountability.

          The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) engages in rulemaking under the FCRA through the
          authority granted under the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA). The Federal Trade
          Commission (FTC) issues commentaries on the statute but does not engage in rulemaking for the FCRA.

          History of the FCRA

          The FCRA was passed to address a growing credit reporting industry in the United States following the
          drastic increase in use of credit in the American economy. Credit reporting agencies compiled consumer
          credit reports and investigative consumer reports on individuals who were seeking credit. The FCRA was
          the first federal law to regulate the use of personal information by private businesses.

          The first major credit reporting agency, Retail Credit Co, was started in 1899. Over the years, Retail
          Credit Co purchased smaller CRAs and expanded its business into selling reports to insurers and
          employers, changing its name along the way to Equifax.

          By the 1960s, significant controversy surrounded the CRAs like Retail Credit Co. Consumers and
          legislators were concerned with issues of inaccurate or incomplete credit reports, leading to denial of
          services and opportunities, and a lack of consumer right to inspect their files. The congressional record
          shows that consumers complained of mistaken identities and biased data, such as noting that an
          individual was sued for nonpayment, but did not include the disposition of the case.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                          1/13
2025/12/22 1:51                                 The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          There was also abuse in the industry. The investigators collected “lifestyle” information on consumers,
          including from neighbors, which were ripe for malicious gossip. CRAs collected information including
          sexual orientation, couples “living out of wedlock,” alcohol consumption habits, and rumors of encounters
          with law enforcement. Investigators even fabricated negative information. Public exposure of the
          industry resulted in Congressional inquiry and federal regulation of CRAs.

          Years of legislative leadership by Representative Leonor Sullivan and Senator William Proxmire resulted
          in the passage of the FCRA in 1970. Senator Proxmire attempted to broaden the FCRA’s protections over
          the next ten years. Shortly after the FCRA took effect on April 25, 1971, the FTC pursued CRAs for
          violations of numerous provisions of the Act.

          Comprehensive amendments to the FCRA were made in the Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of
          1996 (P.L. 104-208, 100 STAT 3009-426). The reform was motivated by continuing issues in accuracy
          and difficulty correcting credit reports. The Amendments contained several improvements to the FCRA,
          including obligations on furnishers and an ability for consumers to sue furnishers after the furnisher had
          the opportunity to reinvestigate and fix mistakes. However, it also included provisions that allow affiliate
          sharing of credit reports, “prescreening” of credit reports (where a creditor asks a CRA for a list of people
          who meet specified credit-granting criteria and make unsolicited offers of credit), and preemption of
          certain stronger state laws.

          The FCRA was re-visited in 2003 when Congress enacted the “Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act
          of 2003” (FACTA). The Act preempted some state privacy protections but included several improvements
          to credit reporting law, including free annual credit reports. FACTA also required consumers to be notified
          of adverse action (e.g. credit denial or receiving less favorable credit terms) based on information
          obtained from a CRA and included provisions to prevent identity theft and ability for consumers to place
          fraud alerts in their credit files.

          The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (P.L.111-203) established the
          Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), consolidating many federal consumer financial protection
          powers from other federal agencies. After the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has rulemaking authorities over
          all CRAs under the FCRA. For enforcement, the CFPB has authority over the “larger participants” of the
          consumer credit market, including the “Big Three,” while the FTC retains FCRA enforcement authority
          over smaller participants and financial institutions.

          The 2018 Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act established new consumer
          protections related to credit reporting, including the right to a free credit freeze, which allows consumers
          to cease opening new credit accounts in their names as a precaution from fraud and identity theft. This
          legislative action followed a 2017 data breach of Equifax that exposed the personal data of as many as
          148 millions individuals.


          THE FCRA’S PROVISIONS

          Because credit reports can include sensitive personal information and because they are used to evaluate
          the ability to participate in so many different activities in modern life, their regulations are important for
          consumer privacy.

          In addition to consumer reporting agencies (CRAs), the FCRA establishes rights and responsibilities for
          “consumers,” “furnishers,” and “users” of credit reports:

               Consumers are individuals.

               Furnishers are entities that send information to CRAs regarding creditworthiness in the normal course
               of business.

               Users of credit reports are entities that request a report to evaluate a consumer for some purpose.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                                2/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          What qualifies as a Credit Reporting Agency (CRA)?

          The FCRA defines a consumer reporting agency (CRA) as an entity that “regularly engages in whole or in
          part in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information or other information on
          consumers for the purpose of furnishing consumer reports to third parties.”

          CRAs vary in size and specialty. There are three national CRAs in the United States often referred to as
          the “Big Three”: Experian (formerly TRW), Trans Union, and Equifax (formerly Retail Credit Co.). There
          are also others that usually concentrate on reporting on individuals living in certain regions of the
          country or focus on credit reporting for specific industries. CRAs sell reports for a variety of purposes,
          including tenant screening, employment background checks, insurance eligibility, credit eligibility, and
          more. CRAs also sell reports to companies that advertise subprime loans to low-income people,
          telecommunications and utility companies, and companies who provide third-party fraud and risk
          management services to other companies.

          Depending on the nature of the operation, other companies can be considered CRAs. Courts have held
          that private investigators, detective agencies, collection agencies, and even college placement offices can
          be CRAs under the law.

          In 2023, the CFPB began a rulemaking process where it proposed to expand coverage of FCRA over data
          brokers as CRAs because they often share credit reporting information with third parties. The rulemaking
          was an attempt to respond to the growing consumer surveillance where data brokers aggregate sensitive
          data about consumers without consent, threatening various privacy harms, while evading coverage under
          FCRA. EPIC submitted comments to the CFPB in support of the rulemaking, arguing that data brokers
          should be presumptively covered by the broad scope of FCRA because its business model is to “regularly
          engage[] in whole or in part in… assembling or evaluating… consumer information” and to share third-
          party data. As of May 2025, the proposed rule was rescinded by the CFPB.

          Consumer Credit Reports and Investigative Consumer Reports (ICRs)

          Consumer credit reports contain information on financial accounts and include credit card balances and
          mortgage information. Credit reports are used for evaluating eligibility for credit, insurance, employment,
          and tenancy; the ability to pay child support; professional licensing (for instance, to become an
          attorney); or for any purpose that a consumer approves.

          A consumer credit report will contain basic identifying information (name, address, previous address,
          Social Security Number, marital status, employment information, number of children) along with:

               Financial information: Estimated income, employment, bank accounts, value of car and home.

               Public records information: Such as arrests, bankruptcies, and tax liens.

               Tradelines: Credit accounts and their status. This will also include the data subject’s payment habits
               on credit accounts.

               Collection Items: Whether the data subject has unpaid or disputed bills.

               Current Employment and employment history.

               Requests for the credit report: The number of requests for the data subject’s report and the identity
               of the requestors.

               Narrative information: A statement by the data subject or by the furnisher regarding disputed items
               on the credit report.

               Health information.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           3/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          Certain information about consumers is excluded from the definition of “credit report.” This includes
          “transaction and experience” information, that is, records of purchases of goods and services by the
          consumer. Consumer files, however, do not contain information on consumer income or assets.
          Additionally, corporations may share credit report information among affiliates as long as notice and opt-
          out is provided to the consumer.

          CRAs can also prepare “investigative consumer reports,” (ICRs) dossiers on consumers that include
          information on character, reputation, personal characteristics, and mode of living. ICRs are complied
          from personal interviews with persons who know the consumer. Since ICRs include especially sensitive
          information, the FCRA affords greater protections for them. For instance, within three days of requesting
          an ICR, the requestor must inform the consumer that an ICR is being compiled. The consumer also can
          request a statement explaining the nature and scope of the investigation underlying the ICR.

          The Credit “Score”

          The credit score is a “grade” of creditworthiness. Individuals with good credit scores can obtain credit
          more easily, and at lower interest rates. Companies do not disclose the precise algorithm they use to
          determine credit scores to the public. However, the following factors likely affect credit scores: the
          amount of money owed to creditors, payment history, whether the individual is seeking new extensions
          of credit, and the types of credit lines that an individual currently holds. An individual may have different
          credit scores depending on the scoring model, the source of the data used, and even the day it was
          calculated. There can also be differences between consumer- and creditor-purchased credit scores,
          raising reliability issues for consumer-purchased credit scores.

          The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACTA), which amended the FCRA, requires CRAs
          to disclose a consumer’s credit score. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 also amended two provisions of the
          FCRA to require the disclosure of a credit score and related information when a credit score is used in
          taking an adverse action or in risk-based pricing.

          Credit reporting companies may charge a fee, but a credit score may be obtained for free from your
          credit card issuer, another lender, or from a non-profit credit or housing counselor. The disclosure must
          include the score along with the range of possible scores. Mortgage lending companies must also provide
          the credit score upon request, in addition to the key factors of the underlying automated underwriting
          system if one is used.

          The Credit “Header”

          A credit header is identifying information from a credit report. It includes name, mother’s maiden name,
          date of birth, sex, address, prior addresses, telephone number, and the Social Security Number. Credit
          headers were defined this way in an FTC report to Congress in 1997. The FTC allowed the CRAs to treat
          headers as “above the line” information and to sell it with no legal protections for the individual. The
          reasoning was that this information did not relate to credit, and thus should not be considered part of the
          credit report.

          EPIC has advocated for the CFPB to clarify that credit header data is consumer reporting information that
          is covered by FCRA. Credit header information is sold in bulk by CRAs and data brokers and can be
          purchased online. For example, data brokers buy and sell hundreds of millions of names and addresses
          gathered by essential utilities companies without consumers’ knowledge or consent, causing harms to
          privacy and civil liberties. Further, data brokers dealing in credit header data also consistently fail to
          comply with the accuracy standard set forth in FCRA, resulting in these data brokers collecting and
          selling inaccurate data that harms consumers. Thus, the inclusion of credit header information as
          consumer reporting information under FCRA is important to strengthen consumer protections.

          Permissible Uses of the Credit Report




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           4/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          The FCRA limits the use of the credit report to certain purposes. They are:

               Applications for credit, insurance, and rentals for personal, family or household purposes.

               Employment, which includes hiring, promotion, reassignment or retention. A CRA may not release a
               credit report for employment decisions without consent.

               Court orders, including grand jury subpoenas.

               “Legitimate” business needs in transactions initiated by the consumer for personal, family, or
               household purposes.

               Account review. Periodically, banks and other companies review credit files to determine whether they
               wish to retain the individual as a customer.

               Licensing (professional).

               Child support payment determinations.

               Law enforcement access: Government agencies with authority to investigate terrorism and
               counterintelligence have secret access to credit reports.


          Targeted marketing is not a permissible use of credit reports. In 2001, Trans Union attempted to
          challenge the FTC prohibition on using credit information for target marketing but failed in Trans Union v.
          FTC. There, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that tradelines (credit information that
          includes name, address, date of birth, telephone number, Social Security number, account type, opening
          date of account, credit limit, account status, and payment history) could not be sold for marketing
          purposes because they constituted a credit report for purposes of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA).
          Further, the Court rejected the profiler’s claim that the First and Fifth Amendments invalidated the FCRA.

          In 2006, consumer data broker ChoicePoint settled the FTC’s charges that it violated FCRA’s permissible
          purposes provisions by providing consumer reports to persons without a permissible purpose, resulting in
          at least 800 cases of identity theft. More recently, in 2020, a group of companies and individuals settled
          CFPB allegations that they obtained consumer reports without a permissible purpose when they obtained
          consumer reports for use in marketing debt relief services.

          Risk-Based Pricing Notices

          The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which updates the FCRA, requires that a creditor
          notify a consumer when it offers credit terms that are “materially less favorable than the most favorable
          terms available to a substantial proportion of consumers.” Before the amendments, creditors were not
          required to inform consumers when the negative information in the credit report resulted in the offer of
          poor credit terms. Further, the risk-based pricing rule requires creditors to provide consumers with “risk-
          based pricing” notice if they grant credit but on less favorable terms based on a consumer report.

          Affiliate Marketing

          The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 allows consumers to opt-out of affiliate marketing
          — a company’s use of an affiliate company’s information about a consumer for marketing purposes — for
          a period of five years (which may be extended for an additional five years). However, communication of
          other information exempted from the definition of “consumer report” within the FCRA is not subject to a
          consumer’s opt-out. These include, for example, information relating to transactions or experiences
          between the consumer and the company — a broad wealth of information.

          Medical Information




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           5/13
2025/12/22 1:51                           The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          In January 2025, the CFPB finalized a rule that prohibits the inclusion of medical debt on credit reports
          and consideration of medical debt by creditors. This had the effect of removing an estimated $49 billion
          in medical bills from the credit reports of about 15 million Americans.

          This rule followed research by the CFPB, which estimated $88 billion in medical bills were included in
          credit reports, even though the U.S. healthcare system is supported by a billing, payments, collections,
          and credit reporting infrastructure where mistakes are common and patients experience significant
          difficulty in correcting or resolving mistakes. The CFPB’s research also revealed that a medical bill on a
          person’s credit report is a poor predictor of whether they will repay a loan, and contributes to thousands
          of denied applications on mortgages that consumers would be able to repay.

          The final rule followed a joint announcement in March 2022 by the three nationwide credit bureaus—
          Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion—that (1) paid medical debts would no longer be included on credit
          reports for consumers, (2) medical debts that are less than a year old would no longer be included on
          credit reports to give consumers time to settle the debt with medical providers and insurance companies,
          and (3) medical debts under $500 would no longer be included on credit reports for consumers as of the
          first half of 2023.

          Special Rights in the Employment Context–Background Checks

          After 9/11, the number of employers who conduct background checks on prospective employees
          skyrocketed. Today, 95% of U.S. businesses are reported to run background checks before making hiring
          decisions.

          Employers can request standard consumer credit reports or investigative consumer reports (ICRs) on
          their employees. Employers request the reports for hiring, promotion, reassignment, or retention
          decisions. Employment screening companies provide information such as credit history, employment,
          salary, education, and professional license verification to employers and others. They may also collect,
          evaluate, provide, or make available criminal arrest and conviction information; driving record
          information; drug and alcohol testing and health screening information; and non-profit and volunteer
          activity verification.

          Employers using background screening reports must certify to the CRA that they will comply with the
          FCRA. Employers that use consumer reports are required under FCRA to get written permission from
          applicants to obtain their consumer reports for use in the decision-making process.

          If the employer intends to take any adverse action based in any part on information in the report, it must
          first provide to the consumer: 1) a copy of the report and 2) a summary of the consumer’s rights under
          FCRA. If the employer takes an adverse action, it must notify the individual. The individual has the right
          to dispute information in the report and the results of the investigation are sent to the individual.
          However, applicants who learn about any inaccuracies following adverse actions may not have sufficient
          time to make corrections before losing the prospective job.

          A patchwork of federal, state, and local laws limit the ability of employers to use background checks. An
          employer cannot refuse to hire people simply because they have been arrested, though they can inquire
          about the circumstances of the arrest. Some states do not allow the consideration of arrest data (without
          a conviction) in employment decisions. Other states prohibit employers from asking about criminal
          history until later in the hiring process. Under the FCRA, an arrest is generally not allowed to be reported
          when it is older than seven years, or outside the governing statute of limitations. Some state laws also
          limit time for reporting of convictions to seven years. And, federal Equal Employment Opportunity
          Commission (EEOC) regulations prevent employers from taking adverse action against an individual for
          merely having a criminal conviction–the conviction must be relevant to the job, or there must be some
          other sound business reason for taking action against the individual.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                          6/13
2025/12/22 1:51                             The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          Law Enforcement Access to the Credit Report

          Federal, state, and municipal agencies can obtain basic identifying information (name, address, former
          address, employment), referred to as “credit header data” as explained above, on any consumer through
          a CRA. If they want more detailed information provided in a consumer report, however, they generally
          must seek a court order or a subpoena.

          The USA PATRIOT Act, passed in the wake of the 9/11, broadened law enforcement access to credit
          reports. Prior to the Act, the FBI had access to credit reports without a court order or subpoena if it
          certified that the information is necessary for “the conduct of an authorized investigation to protect
          against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities.” The Act eliminated the requirement
          of a nexus to a foreign power or its agents and instead, § 1681u requires that the information sought be
          relevant for various national security investigations “to protect against international terrorism or
          clandestine intelligence activities.” § 1681v allows any government agency that is authorized to conduct
          intelligence or counterintelligence investigations or analysis of international terrorism to gain access to
          credit reports. Like the FBI access provision, the agency must certify that the credit report is necessary
          for investigation or analysis. The CRA is not permitted to disclose to the data subject that the
          government agency sought the credit report. Further, requests made under § 1681v do not have to be
          disclosed to Congress. State and local law enforcement within fusion centers often work in conjunction
          with the FBI or other federal officials to seek consumer reports pursuant to either § 1681u or § 1681v
          authority.

          State Protections May Be Broader than the FCRA (“Preemption”)

          The FCRA, like many other privacy statutes, provides a federal baseline of protections for individuals.
          Under 15 U.S.C. § 1681t(a), FCRA is only partially preemptive, meaning that except in a few narrow
          circumstances, state legislatures may pass laws to supplement the protections made by the FCRA. FCRA
          does not usually preempt state credit reporting or other laws, unless there is a specific inconsistency
          between the FCRA and the state law, or unless certain FCRA exceptions apply. Some states have passed
          laws requiring the CRAs to provide reduced cost, or free credit reports.

          In 2022, the CFPB issued an interpretive rule clarifying that the FCRA’s express preemption provisions
          have a “narrow and targeted scope,” providing support for states to adopt credit reporting legislation
          protecting consumers. Opposing frequently argued interpretations by the consumer reporting industry,
          the rule points out that state laws that forbid or restrict CRAs from including information about evictions,
          rental debts, or criminal records generally would not be preempted.

          The FCRA does preempt state law “to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of
          this title, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.” 15 U.S.C. § 1681t(a). State law is
          “inconsistent” only if an individual or an entity would violate FCRA by complying with state law, not if
          state law merely provides more protections to consumers than the FCRA.

          It is possible for state law to be inconsistent with FCRA even if it offers more protection than the federal
          law if it would undermine the “full purposes and objectives” of Congress. There are various areas where
          courts have disagreed on whether state law is preempted by FCRA, including when there is a difference
          of remedies between FCRA and state laws, or when state statutes lacked qualified immunity provisions to
          protect CRAs from tort actions.

          Your Right to Access Your Credit File

          Individuals have the right to request one free copy of your credit report each year from each of the three
          major consumer reporting companies (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion) by visiting
          AnnualCreditReport.com. Once you receive your free annual report, you may request additional reports.
          By law, a credit reporting company can charge no more than $14.50 for a credit report. As of October




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                            7/13
2025/12/22 1:51                           The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          2023, the three national credit reporting agencies have instituted programs that allow individuals to
          check their credit report once a week for free.

          You have a right to a free copy when an entity takes an “adverse action” against you based in whole or
          part on the report. Adverse actions are defined broadly under the act. They include: denial, termination,
          or an unfavorable change in the offer of credit or insurance; denial or an unfavorable change in
          employment or licensing. After an adverse action, the user of the credit report must send the individual
          information on how to obtain a free credit report from the CRA. To get the free report, you must request
          it within 60 days after you receive the notice of adverse action.

          Provision of free copies are also required when an individual is unemployed and seeking employment,
          when the report is inaccurate because of fraud, and when an individual is receiving welfare benefits.

          State law may also require CRAs to provide free credit reports more than one per year as required under
          federal law.

          Right to Correct Inaccurate Information

          A study by Consumer Reports found that more than a quarter of people found serious mistakes in their
          credit reports, making it important for consumers to proactively check their credit reports. Individuals
          may dispute inaccurate information that appears in a credit report with the CRA. To dispute the
          information, individuals should explain in writing what information is wrong, why, and include copies of
          documents to support the dispute. The CFPB provides instructions and a template letter.

          CRAs are required to investigate disputes, forward the dispute and all relevant information you provided
          to the furnisher of the information, and provide a report back to the consumer. Inaccurate or unverifiable
          information must be removed within 30 days of notice of the dispute. If the CRA cannot resolve the
          dispute, the individual can add a statement to the credit report.

          Individuals may also dispute inaccurate information with the furnisher. Examples of furnishers include an
          individual’s bank, landlord, and credit card company. Furnishers that are financial institutions as defined
          in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that extend credit and regularly report negative information about
          customers to nationwide CRAs must notify individuals when reporting negative information. The notice
          must be made either before the negative information is furnished to a CRA, or within 30 days after
          reporting the negative information.

          Furnishers generally must investigate and respond to the dispute within 30 days of receipt. If an
          individual disputes inaccurate information with a furnisher, that furnisher cannot report the information
          to a CRA without also including a notice of the dispute. If the investigation shows the furnisher provided
          incorrect information, or the information cannot be verified, the furnisher must update or remove the
          information and notify all the CRAs after correcting it. Then, the CRAs must update the individual’s credit
          reports. However, the furnisher might determine that the information is accurate and should not be
          updated or removed. If so, the individual can contact the credit reporting companies again and request
          them to include a statement explaining the dispute in the credit reports. The statement is then added to
          the file and provided in any future credit report request.

          Individuals can also submit a complaint with the CFPB for problems with a credit report.

          Even if the information is accurate, the FCRA also imposes time limitations on how long negative
          information can appear in a consumer report. For instance, bankruptcies must be removed from the
          report after 10 years. Civil suits, civil judgments, paid tax liens, accounts placed for collection, and
          records of arrest can only appear for 7 years. Records of criminal convictions can remain on the report
          indefinitely. Also, time limitations on reporting negative information do not apply if the credit report will
          be used in connection with an application for a job that pays more than $75,000 a year or an application
          for more than $150,000 worth of credit or life insurance.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                          8/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          Identity Theft

          American adults lost a total of $43 billion to identity fraud in 2023. Identity theft occurs when the
          perpetrator obtains the victim’s personal information, such as a Social Security number, home address,
          date of birth or bank account data, and uses it for fraud or other illicit purposes. The perpetrator may
          use the victim’s personal information to access the victim’s bank account, use their credit card for
          purchases, or pretend to be the victim and open a new credit card or bank account. The FTC reported
          that in 2024, it received over 2.6 million reports of identity theft. They are most frequently due to
          cyberattacks, such as AT&T’s 2024 announcement that 73 million current and former customers’ personal
          information (including Social Security numbers) had been stolen.

          The FCRA spells out rights for victims of identity theft, as well as responsibilities for businesses. Identity
          theft victims are entitled to ask businesses for a copy of transaction records — such as applications for
          credit — relating to the theft of their identity. The businesses covered by the law must provide copies of
          these records, free of charge, within 30 days of receiving the request in writing.

          The FACTA added significant identity theft provisions to the FCRA, but most of these provisions are
          remedial and will not prevent identity theft. These include the ability to issue one-call fraud alerts,
          extended fraud alerts and active military duty alerts. Additionally, new responsibilities were placed on
          users of credit reports (e.g. a lending company). These include red-flag guidelines, providing identity
          theft victims with business transaction information, and protecting certain consumer information.

          The 2018 Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act established new consumer
          protections, including the right to a free credit freeze, which allows consumers to cease opening new
          credit accounts in their names as a precaution from fraud and identity theft.

          If a consumer is a victim of identity theft, they should visit IdentityTheft.gov and place a fraud alert. A
          fraud alert requires creditors to take additional steps to verify the consumer’s identity before they open a
          new account, issue an additional card, or increase the credit limit on an existing account based on a
          consumer’s request. A consumer may provide a telephone contact number through which a credit user
          must verify the consumer’s identity.

          All fraud alerts are “one-call.” If a CRA receives a request for a fraud alert, it must notify the other CRAs
          also. The fraud alert is also communicated to users requesting the consumer’s credit report. Additionally,
          the CRA must notify the consumer of their right to a free credit report.

          There are two main types of fraud alerts: initial fraud alerts and extended alerts. Credit reporting
          companies will keep the initial fraud alert on the consumer’s file for one year. After one year, the initial
          fraud alert will expire. When a consumer places an initial fraud alert on file, they’re entitled to order one
          free copy of their credit report from each of the nationwide credit reporting companies.

          If the consumer has filed a report with a law enforcement agency, they can request an “extended fraud
          alert” that lasts for seven years. CRAs must also exclude the consumer from prescreening lists for five
          years and notify the consumer of their right to two free credit reports within twelve months of the fraud
          alert request.

          Servicemembers in the armed forces can also request an “active military duty alert” that remains active
          for twelve months, which can be renewed. This alert requires businesses to take reasonable steps to the
          consumer’s identity before issuing credit. The consumer placing an active military duty alert may assign
          a personal representative to answer identity verification requests.

          Furnishers also have duties under the FCRA when a CRA notifies it that a consumer’s identity has been
          stolen. For example, if a CRA notifies a furnisher that information that it furnished is blocked on a
          consumer’s credit report because of identity theft, the furnisher must have procedures to prevent re-
          reporting of the information. If a CRA notifies a furnisher that a debt has resulted from identity theft, the




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           9/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          furnisher may not sell, transfer, or place that debt for collection. If a furnisher finds that it furnished
          inaccurate information due to identity theft, it must promptly notify each CRA of the correct
          information.

          Credit monitoring products are often offered by businesses when a consumer’s personal information held
          by those businesses has been the subject of a data security breach. One problem with this practice is
          that these products merely detect possible identity theft at best and do little to prevent a future identity
          theft. A security freeze is a better preventative measure. Because most businesses will not open credit
          accounts without checking the consumer’s credit report, a freeze can stop identity thieves from opening
          new accounts in the victim’s name. However, a freeze doesn’t prevent identity thieves from taking over
          existing accounts.

          Under the 2018 Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, consumers can freeze
          and unfreeze their credit record for free at the three national CRAs – Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax.
          A security freeze, also called a credit freeze, stops new creditors from accessing the consumer’s credit
          file until they lift the freeze. The federal law requiring free security freezes does not apply to entities that
          request the consumer’s credit report for employment, tenant-screening, or insurance purposes. Unlike
          fraud alerts, placing a credit freeze with one CRA does not initiate a credit freeze with other CRAs. The
          consumer must contact each CRA individually to place a credit freeze.

          Consumers can also opt out of “prescreeing” to reduce the chances of identity theft. Prescreening is the
          practice of selling lists of customers based on information in the credit file to send unsolicited offers of
          credit. Opting out may reduce the chances of malicious actors from intercepting the offers and
          fraudulently opening accounts in the consumer’s name.

          Enforcement of FCRA

          The FCRA affords individuals a private right of action that can be pursued in federal or state court against
          CRAs, users of credit reports, and furnishers. In certain circumstances, successful plaintiffs can obtain
          attorney’s fees, court costs, and punitive damages.

          While the FCRA imposes obligations on furnishers of information to CRAs, FCRA explicitly states that
          there is no private right of action against furnishers for many of those requirements (15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
          2(c)). These include, for example, to refrain from furnishing information about a consumer to a CRA if
          the furnisher knows or has reason to believe that the information is inaccurate, to refrain from furnishing
          information if the furnisher has been notified by a consumer that the information is inaccurate and is in
          fact inaccurate, and to correct and update information. The FCRA also limits furnisher liability under state
          law through qualified immunity from certain tort claims and through a preemption provision.

          One exception to the general prohibition on private right of action against furnishers is against creditors
          and furnishers that fail to comply with reinvestigation obligations. Creditors, debt collectors, and others
          who furnish information to CRAs must participate in reinvestigations conducted by the CRAs when
          consumers dispute the accuracy or completeness of information with the CRA, and must follow certain
          steps to correct erroneous information (15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(b)). This private right of action is only
          triggered where a CRA asks the furnisher to reinvestigate, and not where a consumer disputes the
          information directly with the furnisher.

          The qualified immunity provision also limits liability under three tort theories for CRAs, users, and
          furnishers for reporting of information. Specifically, 15 U.S.C. § 1681h(e) establishes a limited qualified
          immunity for the CRA, user, and furnisher from liability under defamation, invasion of privacy, or
          negligence, unless the conduct involves malice or willful intent. Because the limited qualified immunity
          only applies to claims “with respect to the reporting of information,” other conduct, unrelated to the
          information reported, can give rise to tort claims that the qualified immunity would not reach.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           10/13
2025/12/22 1:51                             The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          Public enforcement authority under the FCRA is spread among several different federal agencies,
          including the FTC and the CFPB, since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010. The federal
          agency with enforcement authority differs depending on the size and type of the institution that is the
          target of enforcement. All persons subject to the FCRA are subject to enforcement actions by at least one
          federal agency. Additionally, general enforcement authority is vested in the states.

          The division of enforcement authority between federal agencies does not affect states’ ability to enforce
          the FCRA. The FCRA provides that state attorney generals may bring actions for violations of the FCRA.

          Article III Standing Challenges

          Two recent decisions by the Supreme Court interpreting Article III standing—Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins
          (2016) and TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez (2021)—have significantly limited an individual consumer’s ability
          to sue under FCRA for violations of the law.

          In Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, Thomas Robins charged that Spokeo disclosed inaccurate information about
          him that harmed his employment prospects, violating his rights under the FCRA. The Court sided with
          Spokeo and concluded that certain “bare procedural violations” are not sufficiently “concrete” of an injury
          to satisfy Article III standing requirements.

          In TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, the Court ruled that proof of “concrete harm”—not merely legal injury (i.e.
          a violation of statutory rights)—can satisfy Article III standing. The jury in the case had found that
          TransUnion willfully violated the FCRA. However, the Supreme Court held that only the individuals who
          could prove that these false credit reports, which flagged them as potential terrorists, drug traffickers,
          and other sanctioned individuals, had been disclosed to third parties had shown that they suffered a
          “concrete injury.” But individuals who could not provide evidence of disclosure could not have standing to
          sue.

          As EPIC wrote after the Court’s decision, TransUnion has major implications for individuals seeking
          redress in federal court for privacy violations that violate the law, such as FCRA, but that do not involve
          the improper disclosure of personal information.

          Accuracy Issues in Consumer Credit Reporting and Non-Compliance with FCRA Obligations

          In order to gain passage of the FCRA in 1970, consumer advocates gave CRAs a big concession—
          immunity from defamation lawsuits based on information in the reports. Since defamation actions are
          limited, individuals often obtain redress against CRAs by suing for failure to correct inaccurate
          information, which has been limited by the Supreme Court’s Article III standing cases.

          Inaccuracy in the credit reporting system is a long-standing issue. A CFPB report from August 2024
          found that non-compliance with obligations to ensure accuracy and provide other protections under FCRA
          and Regulation V are outstanding issues today. Examiners found that companies refused to honor
          consumer requests to block information associated with identity theft based on overbroad criteria; failed
          to inform consumers when blocks were denied or rescinded; failed to provide victims of identity theft
          with summaries of rights; and failed to timely block all information resulting from human trafficking
          identified by consumers. Examiners also found companies accepted information from furnishers that may
          have been no longer providing reliable, verifiable information about consumers, such as furnishers that
          failed to respond to nearly all disputes or provided the same responses to all disputes. Further,
          examiners found auto loan furnishers continued to share incomplete or inaccurate information for several
          months or even years after learning the information was false, incomplete, or inaccurate. Some
          furnishers continued to furnish information that consumers were disputing without indicating the
          information was disputed, or failed to investigate the accuracy of information that consumers disputed.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                            11/13
2025/12/22 1:51                            The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




          In addition to its supervision work, the CFPB has taken regulatory and enforcement actions. In November
          2023, the CFPB ordered Toyota Motor Credit to pay $60 million for illegal lending and credit reporting
          misconduct. The challenged conduct included knowingly tarnishing consumers’ credit reports with false
          information. In October 2023, the CFPB and Federal Trade Commission took actions against TransUnion
          for illegal rental background check and credit reporting practices, for which TransUnion was ordered to
          pay $23 million. TransUnion failed to take steps to ensure the rental background checks that landlords
          use to decide who gets housing were accurate. The company also withheld, from renters, the names of
          third parties that were providing the inaccurate information.

          RESOURCES

               Fair Credit Reporting, National Consumer Law Center.

               Consumer and credit Reporting, Scoring, and Related Policy Issues, Congressional Research Service
               (Nov. 19, 2024).

               FTC Commentary on the FCRA, 16 C.F.R. Part 600.

               40 Years of Experience with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, FTC.

               Credit Reporting Requirements, CFPB.

               Essentials About Credit Reporting: Consumer Debt Advice from NCLC, National Consumer Law
               Center.

               Reports: The CFPB Gets Results for Consumers, PIRG.

               Learn More: Navigating Financial Rules and Regulations, CFPB.

               Annual Report of Credit and Consumer Reporting Complaints, CFPB.

               Credit Reporting, FTC.

               Fair Credit Reporting Act, FTC.

               Consumer and Credit Reporting, Scoring, and Related Issues, Congressional Research Service.

               Testimony Before the House Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection, Bruce
               Schneier.

               CFPB’s Proposed Data Rules, Bruce Schneier.

               A Model Regime of Privacy Protection, Daniel J. Solove and Chris Jay Hoofnagle.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                           12/13
2025/12/22 1:51                              The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) – EPIC – Electronic Privacy Information Center




                                                      1519 New Hampshire Avenue NW

                                                            Washington, DC 20036

                                                      202.483.1140         |   info@epic.org



               Sign Up for EPIC Alerts
                    Email address                                     SUBSCRIBE

               EPIC uses EmailOctopus to maintain our mailing list and send
               newsletters. View EmailOctopus' privacy policy.


          ISSUES                                         OUR WORK                       MEDIA                             ABOUT


          AI & Human Rights                              Updates                        EPIC in the News                  EPIC Projects

          Consumer Privacy                               Analysis                       Press Kit                         Board & Staff

          Cybersecurity                                  EPIC Alert                     EPIC Statements                   EPIC Advisory Board

          Data Protection                                Events                         EPIC Commentaries                 Careers & Internships

          Democracy & Free Speech                        EPIC Publications                                                Being a Non-profit

          Open Government                                Digital Library                                                  Cy Pres Awards

          Platform Accountability & Governance                                                                            Privacy Policy

          Privacy Laws                                                                                                    Contact Us

          Surveillance Oversight




                                                                DONATE



          © Copyright 1994 - 2025 EPIC, all rights reserved.




https://epic.org/fcra/                                                                                                                            13/13
