THE REGULATION
OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY:
THE UNITED STATES VS EUROPE

NICOLA JENTZSCH




                  ECRI RESEARCH REPORT NO. 5
                                   JUNE 2003
The European Credit Research Institute (ECRI) is a non-profit international association
established in March 1999 in partnership with the Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS) in
Brussels. Its principal goal is to promote the study of the retail financial services sector at the EU
level. ECRI’s activities include the creation of a database on consumer credit in the European
Union, research and analysis of developments in retail financial markets and the organisation of
seminars on all issues affecting the industry.
This report was prepared by Nicola Jentzsch, Lecturer and Research Fellow with the John F.
Kennedy Institute at the Freie Universität Berlin (jentzsch@zedat.fu-berlin.de). The views
expressed in this study are attributable only to the author in a personal capacity and not to any
institution with which she is associated.
This study was supported by the Credit Research Center (CRC) of Georgetown University,
Washington, D.C. The author would especially like to thank Prof. Dr. Carl-Ludwig Holtfrerich
(Freie Universität Berlin), Prof. Michael Staten (CRC, Georgetown University), Prof. Dr. Peter
Michael von der Lippe (Universität Gesamthochschule Essen), Dr. Thorsten Thadewald (Freie
Universität Berlin), Amparo San José Riestra (ECRI), Nataliya Mylenko (World Bank) and the
participants at the seminar on Financial Privacy Regimes and Competition in the Credit
Reporting Industry: The US vs. Europe at the World Bank for their comments. The author also
thanks Nadine Brandt and Anne Jacobs for excellent research assistance.




ISBN 92-9079-432-4
© Copyright 2003, European Credit Research Institute

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or
transmitted in any form or by any means – electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise – without the prior permission of the European Credit Research Institute.

European Credit Research Institute
Place du Congrès 1, B-1000 Brussels
Tel: 32(0)2 229.39.11 Fax: 32(0)2 219.41.51
E-mail: info@ecri.be
Website: http://www.ecri.be
                                                      CONTENTS

Executive Summary ................................................................................................... i
1.    Introduction ....................................................................................................... 1
2.    Financial Privacy Regimes and Their Evaluation ............................................ 2
     2.1 The Evolution of Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s................................2
         2.1.1 The US Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s...................................3
         2.1.2 The EU and Member State Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s .....5
                2.1.2.1 The EU Harmonisation Regime ............................................ 5
                2.1.2.2 The German Financial Privacy Regime ................................. 7
                2.1.2.3 The British Financial Privacy Regime ................................... 8
                2.1.2.4 The French Financial Privacy Regime ................................... 9
     2.2 Current Research on Privacy Evaluation .......................................................11
     2.3 Evaluation Instrument...................................................................................12
     2.4 Financial Privacy Index (FPI)........................................................................13
         2.4.1 Construction of the Financial Privacy Index.......................................13
         2.4.2 Results of the Financial Privacy Index ...............................................15
3.    Credit Markets and the Costs of Privacy Regulation ..................................... 17
     3.1 Costs of Data Protection ..............................................................................17
     3.2 Credit Markets and Information-sharing .......................................................19
     3.3 Data Protection and Consumer Credit Markets .............................................22
         3.3.1 Hypotheses .......................................................................................22
         3.3.2 Pearson’s Correlations for Individual Countries.................................26
         3.3.3 Pearson’s Correlations and Cross-Country Evidence .........................27
         3.3.4 Partial Correlation Coefficients: Cross-Country Evidence..................28
4.    Competition and Market Structure in Credit Reporting Industries ............. 30
     4.1 Competition in Information Markets .............................................................30
     4.2 Competition in the US Credit Reporting Industry..........................................33
     4.3 Competition in the European Credit Reporting Industry................................37
         4.3.1 Germany ...........................................................................................39
         4.3.2 Great Britain .....................................................................................40
         4.3.3 France...............................................................................................41
     4.4 International Cooperation .............................................................................44
5.    Conclusions ...................................................................................................... 46
References ............................................................................................................... 48
Annex ...................................................................................................................... 57
List of Tables
1. Financial privacy regimes in four selected countries                 3
2. Regulation of the French FICP                                       10
3. Absolute numbers of regulations in four selected countries          13
4. Cobb-Douglas Financial Privacy Index                                15
5. Average costs related to access and disclosure                      18
6. Surveys of the economic activities of credit bureaus                20
7. Cross-country partial correlation coefficients                      29
8. US market leaders in credit information provision                   37
9. Concentration by the largest credit reporting agencies (receipts)   37
10. Coverage rates of private credit bureaus                           38
11. Coverage rates of public credit registers (Germany and France)     39
A1. Evaluation instrument                                              57
A2. Pearson correlation coefficients: The US                           60
A3. Pearson correlation coefficients: Germany                          61
A4. Pearson correlation coefficients: The UK                           62
A5. Pearson correlation coefficients: France                           63
A6. Cross-country evidence                                             64

List of Figures
1.   Cobb-Douglas financial privacy indices (1990-2001)                16
2.   Information allocation in four selected countries (1990-2001)     24
3.   Estimated credit risk in four selected countries (1990-2001)      25


List of Boxes
1.   Overview of variables used in the study                           23
  THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY:
      THE UNITED STATES VS EUROPE
                    ECRI RESEARCH REPORT NO. 5
                                 NICOLA JENTZSCH

                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


T
       he consumer credit market depends on the exchange of personal information
       among market participants. Credit bureaus are the primary repositories of this
       information, and in recent years they have gathered a vast amount of data on
creditworthiness of individuals. Currently Europe as well as the United States are
planning large-scale overhauls of their regimes of information sharing in consumer credit
markets. In Europe, a new proposal for a directive on consumer credit is discussed,
whereas in the US, key provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act are expiring by the
end of 2003.
Until recently, however, there has been little independent research on the far-reaching
implications of privacy regulations in consumer credit markets. There has also been little
quantitative analysis of the effects of differing regulatory environments on both credit
reporting agencies and the efficiency of the consumer credit market. The present study
fills that gap by analysing the economic effects associated with different financial privacy
regimes. The US are contrasted with the European Union (with Germany, Great Britain
and France as reference countries) to analyse the differences in the privacy regimes and
their effects on consumer credit markets. There are less privacy regulations in the US
and credit bureaus compete on a nationwide scale. In the EU, on the other hand, data
protection and credit reporting schemes differ from one country to another. Americans
enjoy broad access to credit, but this is correlated with greater indebtedness, whereas in
the EU, credit markets are thinner and households are in general less indebted.
One of the major research questions is whether more stringent data protection
regulations inhibit the distribution of credit reports in consumer credit markets. This, in
turn, could result in reduced access to credit, less integrated markets and increasing
consumer credit risk (measured by the household debt-service burden). With the
Financial Privacy Index (FPI) developed in this study, it is possible to quantify data
protection regimes. The indices show that the US grants less data protection than the
reviewed EU members. Using this index, it is possible to identify the effects of data
protection on information distribution, access to credit, consumer indebtedness and
consumer credit risk.
The international comparison shows that countries with higher data protection exhibit
lower information allocation. However, growing data protection in individual countries is
correlated with increased information allocation. It is shown that the more credit reports
are sold the higher is the access to credit. This is associated with greater consumer
indebtedness and higher consumer credit risk. Among other factors, the latter is due to

                                             i
the fact that access is broadened and marginally less creditworthy households are
entering the market.
The policy implications are the following. To increase access to credit and to expand the
integration of the consumer credit markets in the EU, cross-border dissemination of
credit reports should be facilitated by a standardisation of European credit reporting
systems. The proposal for a new directive on consumer credit provides a chance for such
harmonisation. At the same time, however, this exchange has to be transparent to
consumers – this is of the utmost importance for the trust in consumer credit markets.
Moreover, the European Commission should ensure that the current Data Protection
Directive is equally and quickly transposed in the member countries. A new directive
directed specifically to the exchange of credit information would only increase regulatory
uncertainty and introduce another round of extended and unequal transposition efforts by
member countries. In addition, the European Commission should develop a transparent
evaluation mechanism for reviewing the transposition and operation of the current Data
Protection Directive.
In the US, where the Fair Credit Reporting Act is currently discussed, policy-makers
should ensure that the national standards in credit reporting are kept in place. To some
extend, the US faces the same problems as Europe. If states are allowed to design their
own regulations for information sharing regimes, these regimes will almost certainly
differ and therefore reduce scale and scope effects in the credit reporting industry. Credit
reporting markets are based upon networks and these networks exhibit peculiarities that
should be taken into consideration before applying regulations. The present study also
describes the competition in such markets.
A unified system of credit reporting in Europe is likely to result in broader access to
consumer credit. And cross-border credit, which is still in its infancy in Europe, may also
increase. However, with the broader access seems to come increasing consumer credit
risk, as the analysis of the present study suggests. Intensified competition in consumer
credit markets is certainly increasing the quality of services and decreasing prices in the
long run, but currently Europe does not seem to have adequate instruments in place to
monitor the development of the market. Therefore, the EU also needs common
definitions and procedures of bankruptcy and over-indebtedness of households to
effectively monitor these developments.




                                             ii
     THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY:
         THE UNITED STATES VS EUROPE
                     ECRI RESEARCH REPORT NO. 5
                                 NICOLA JENTZSCH
1.    Introduction
Credit markets have changed remarkably in the 1990s due to increasing liberalisation and
the widespread adoption of information technology. The intermediating mechanisms of
information-sharing in these markets, however, have largely developed without major
discussion in the public realm. In recent years the information allocation mediated via
credit bureaus has attracted increasing interest and currently the European Union as well
as the United States plan reforms of the regulation of information sharing in their
consumer credit markets. Data protection regulation of this information exchange,
however, and especially its economic implications for consumer credit markets have not
been analysed to date.
The present study is intended to close this gap by analysing the economic effects of
different financial privacy regimes on consumer credit markets. It also provides evidence
about the costs of financial data protection. In this study, the US and the EU (with
Germany, Great Britain and France as reference countries) are contrasted. Broadly, the
US provides less data protection than does the EU. On both sides of the Atlantic,
however, major changes in data protection occurred in the 1990s due to increasing
public pressure for more data protection. Moreover, in the EU the new proposal for a
directive on consumer credit mandates new obligations in this respect and in the US key
provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act are currently under review, since they expire
by the end of 2003.
In this study, it is examined whether more stringent privacy regimes portend adverse
effects for the distribution of consumer credit reports in credit markets. This could result
in reduced access to consumer credit and increasing credit risk (measured by the
household debt-service burden), since information on the characteristics of the borrower
is not readily available.
First the differences in data protection regimes in the countries of interest are discussed.
The Financial Privacy Index developed in this study is a quantitative measure that rates
countries according to the protection of personal credit information that is distributed via
credit bureaus. This index is supposed to show the differences in a more detailed way
than the studies that have been conducted in this field so far. Moreover, the approach has
the great strength of showing a dynamic perspective, since the countries are rated for the
whole decade (1990-2001).
The index is then introduced in the statistical tests to analyse adverse effects of increased
data protection on information distribution, access to credit, consumer indebtedness or
consumer credit risk. The picture is completed by a discussion of the competition in
credit reporting industries, which are prone to strong concentration processes. Again,
large differences in the US-EU comparison can be found. Competition in the European
                                             1
                                           NICOLA JENTZSCH

credit reporting industry only recently started to intensify, but credit bureaus still primary
concentrate on their national markets. Their US counterparts, on the other hand,
compete on an international scale and entered the EU markets via mergers and
acquisitions.
It is not the purpose of this study to choose one of the privacy regimes as a benchmark
or as a first-best solution. Instead both positive and negative consequences are examined
since they are associated with each of the different financial privacy regimes.

2.    Financial Privacy Regimes and Their Evaluation
Data protection regimes differ widely from country to country – a fact that constitutes
problems not only for international data transfers, but that also led to a dispute between
the US and the EU from 1998 until 2000 over what constitutes adequate protection of
personal information. In what way those countries differ is largely unknown, however,
because this involves an analysis and comparison of laws.
First the data protection regime of the aforementioned countries are described (US,
Germany, Great Britain and France). In addition, the European level is included which
constitutes the harmonisation framework. This descriptive part already hints at the
existing gaps and differences, although a more thorough analysis is given in a later
section.

2.1   The Evolution of Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s
Over the last 30 years, one could observe the emergence of international agreements that
include a subgroup of countries or whole regions, depending on the number of signatory
countries. These regimes offer minimum standards of privacy protection on an
international level and sometimes also serve as an example for national legislation. In an
ideal case, a country could choose to adopt the principles of one of the three
international regimes currently in operation: that of the OECD, the EEC or the EU.1
Such regimes vary in the protection they grant to the individual. An important point is
that they are very different in their institutional form; some are simple voluntary
guidelines, while others are binding international contracts. One may state that these
regimes reveal regulatory discrepancies, in the sense that one country may apply very
strict rules, while another may not have any in effect at all. Moreover, if countries have
no data protection laws, nor signed any of the international agreements, this could give
rise to “off-shore data havens”.
The more stringent regimes, on the other hand, are accused of acting as non-tariff trade
barriers to the free flow of information, especially for service industries (Kitchenman and
Teixeira, 1998, p. 104 and p. 106).




1
  The 1980 OECD guidelines were intended as a recommendation for a harmonisation of national
regimes. They are based on eight principles: collection limitation, data quality, purpose specification,
usage limitation, security safeguards, openness, individual participation (access) and accountability. We
evaluate only the EEC and the EU regime.

                                                   2
                             THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Table 1 presents an overview of the acts that are important for regulating the collection
and distribution of creditworthiness information. It only includes the federal acts in the
four countries of interest, not the regulatory measures. This simple overview already
shows how often data protection regimes change. The US introduces new regulations on
the federal level with greater frequency than do European countries. This, of course, not
only depends on the efficiency of the legislative institutions, but also on the distribution
of information technologies and the public pressure that arises with large-scale
information collection and processing.
Table 1. Financial privacy regimes in the four selected countries and in the EU
                   Acts
United States      1970 Fair Credit Reporting Act
                   1974 Equal Credit Opportunity Act
                   1992 Fair Credit Reporting Act (as amended)*
                   1996 Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act
                   1999 Fair Credit Reporting Act (as amended)*
                   1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
European Union     1981 CEC (Treaty 108/81) Convention for the Protection of Individuals
                   with regards to Automatic Processing of Personal Data
                   1995 95/46/EC Directive on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the
                   Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of such Data
Germany            1977 Federal Data Protection Act
                   1990 Federal Data Protection Act
                   1994 Amendment to the Federal Data Protection Act
                   2001 Amendment to the Federal Data Protection Act
Great Britain      1974 Consumer Credit Act
                   1984 Data Protection Act
                   1998 Data Protection Act
France             1978 Act on Data Processing, Data Files and Individual Liberties
                   1989 Neiertz Act
*The 1992 Act includes earlier amendments. In 1998, the Consumer Reporting Employment
Clarification Act amended the 1992 FCRA.


2.1.1 The US Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s
The US is generally characterised as a country that is more market-oriented than other
countries. This induces the observation that the US might change its regulations more
often, but in general, less obligations are posed upon companies. Historically, this might
be attributed to the deeply rooted suspicion with which Americans regard government
interference.
Credit reporting was not regulated at the federal level until 1970, but today this industry
is among the most regulated in the US in the area of data protection. The following




                                              3
                                            NICOLA JENTZSCH

assessment includes laws that establish the regulation of information flows specifically in
credit reporting.2
In the United States, the regulation of consumer credit information is mainly based upon
the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) of 1970 and its amendments in the 1990s. The
FCRA established permissible purposes of credit information disclosure and formally
codified the information flows as they had already developed in the market. The Act also
introduced dispute settlement mechanisms as well as correction procedures to increase
information quality. Finally, it assigned certain life cycles to derogatory and bankruptcy
information. The already existent information-sharing arrangements were largely left
unaffected by the Act, since a change in information flows could have caused disruptions
in the consumer credit market that depends on such flows. Several other information
transactions were left unregulated also, i.e. information flows among data providers and
credit bureaus and affiliates as well as among non-affiliates that buy and sell credit
reports. This regime was amended after 1995 in a substantive way. Further explanations
of the early regime are provided by Azcuenaga (1991), Federal Trade Commission
(1972), Maurer and Thomas (1997) and Waren (1993).
The regime as described has not been altered in a general way for more than 25 years.
The 1990s, however, brought major reforms that were intended to close the loopholes,
strengthen privacy rights and improve the data quality of credit reporting information.
These acts have primarily been enacted in response to consumer complaints and an
intensifying public debate about privacy erosion in the face of increasing use of
information technologies. For the second part of the 1990s, the following acts were
analysed: Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996 (1996 CCRRA), the Fair
Credit Reporting Act of 1999 (1999 FCRA) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999
(1999 GLBA). 3
The Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996 introduced a new information
network requiring a notification system among credit bureaus in the event that
inaccuracies occurred. For the first time, it also introduced duties for information
providers. It mandated an information flow to credit bureaus in order to correct any
inaccuracies as well as a reciprocal flow from the bureaus to the furnishers for the same
reason. The Act also facilitated an increase in the information flows among affiliates of
the same corporate family. Those affiliates are allowed to share information, but only
after they notified the consumer and provided him or her with an opportunity to opt-out.
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) of 1999 completed the picture in regulating the
information flows among financial institutions and non-affiliated third parties.
Information may be shared after the provision of a notice and an opt-out opportunity.
While flows among financial institutions and third parties can be interrupted by
consumers (through opt-out), the information network with credit bureaus has been
exempted from this rule – the consumer has to be informed about the sharing
arrangement, but only in the case of an adverse decision based upon the credit report.

2
  Some states in the US provide higher data protection in their state laws. For purposes of comparability,
however, we only evaluated the federal acts.
3
  Some of these acts have been amended. For instance, the FCRA of 1999 has been amended by the
CCRRA of 1996 and the Consumer Reporting Employment Clarification Act of 1998.

                                                    4
                                 THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Reviewed within the US context, these rules may represent a stricter regulation
especially in notification and correction provisions. Compared to Europe, however, the
picture seems to be one of relatively free access to information and market-mediated
information accumulation and distribution. For further explanations, the reader is
referred to Barr and Ellis (1999), Federal Trade Commission (1997, 1999, 2000a, 2000b,
2001, 2002), Fischer and McEneney (1997), Perine (2001) and Swire (1996).
Currently, the FCRA is under review in the US. Certain key provisions of the act expire
by 1 January 2004. This is the case for the national standards provision as passed in
1996, which pre-empts state legislatures from regulating specific aspects of consumer
reporting (for instance, the right to share information with affiliates).
Congress, therefore, must re-authorise the state pre-emption provisions; otherwise,
states could apply their own regulatory approach. In that case, problems could arise
resembling those in Europe in which different regulatory regimes could affect the
competition in the credit reporting industry, which would no longer be subject to a
nationally unified framework. Since the competition in the credit reporting industry is
based upon networks that reveal strong scale and scope effects, regulatory measures
should take such effects into account. As of June 2003, a series of hearings on this issue
were scheduled.4

2.1.2 The EU and Member State Financial Privacy Regimes in the 1990s
2.1.2.1 The EU Harmonisation Regime
Data protection has changed enormously in the EU over the course of the 1990s. This is
largely due to the increasing integration of the European member states, some of which
are still in the process of transposing the Data Protection Directive. Moreover, in 2003, a
proposal for a new directive on consumer credit is discussed that also has some
implications for credit reporting systems (see also Jentzsch 2003a).5
The early data protection regime at the EU level is based on the Council of Europe
Convention that was introduced in 1981.6 It is a regime that was intended to harmonise
minimum requirements in data protection and to strengthen cross-national cooperation
among data protection authorities in Europe.
It does not include specific regulations for industries and therefore one cannot directly
find any specific rules about credit reporting. However, since credit bureaus fall under
these general provisions, the Convention is included to summarise the protection at the
European level before 1995. There are also other general rules at the EU level, such as
Art. 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and Art. 286 EC of the
Amsterdam Treaty of 1997. These rules are very basic and mainly echo the Convention.


4
  Position papers and statements are available on the House Committee on Financial Services website
(http://financialservices.house.gov/hearings.asp?formmode=detail&hearing=213).
5
  The full title of the proposed directive is: Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on
the Harmonisation of the Laws, Regulations and Administrative Provisions of the Member States
concerning Credit for Consumers.
6
  The full title is: Council of Europe Convention (Treaty 108/81): Convention for the Protection of
Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data (CEC).

                                                   5
                                           NICOLA JENTZSCH

It had to be implemented by the contracting parties, which included Germany, Great
Britain and France.
The Convention is the first binding international instrument in the field of data
protection. The signatory countries are required to take necessary steps to legislatively
implement the principles. These principles protect individuals against abuses that may
arise with the increasing use of information technologies and the collection and
processing of personal data. At the same time, the Convention was intended to regulate
the transborder flow of personal data and strengthen cooperation among data protection
officers. There are several rights to information that are granted to the data subject, for
example, the right to know that information is stored, and if necessary, to have it
corrected. By 2002, the Convention entered into force in 27 European states (Council of
Europe, 2002). Further explanations in this case are provided by Council of Europe
(2001a, 2001b, 2002), Madsen (1992), Mellors and Pollitt (1984) and Reidenberg and
Schwartz (1996).
In 1995, the European Data Protection Directive was enacted.7 This is by far the most
important regulation introduced at the EU level concerning data protection and it also is
the most comprehensive one in terms of rights and obligations. Although it is commonly
assumed that the directive is a minimum standard, this is not the case. The regulation is
primarily supposed to harmonise the regimes, not to minimise data protection. The
Directive is a major example of the increasing integration depth in the EU. The Directive
was set out to establish an equivalent level of lawful data processing preconditions, data
subject rights and administrative practises. It has to be noted that the Directive only
regulates activities that fall under the scope of EU law. “It excludes areas within Titles V
and VI of the Treaty on European Union, public safety, defence, state security (…) and
the activities of the state in areas of criminal law.” (Carey and Russell, 2000, p. 5). To
fully understand the European regime it was necessary to include Boehmer (2000) and
Brühann (1998, 2000) as well as various documents of the European Commission (1997,
1998a, 1998c, 1998d, 1998e, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002) in the analysis.
In 2002, the proposed directive on consumer credit revealed the increased awareness of
the importance of credit reporting. The proposal was initiated to achieve an optimal
harmonisation level for an integrated European consumer credit market, which is still
largely fragmented into national markets (see Jentzsch, 2003a). Another purpose of the
Directive is to increase consumer protection, which is supposed to be achieved by a new
symmetry of information and responsibility of creditor and borrower.
In Arts. 7 and 8, the proposal also has implications for credit reporting. It states that
personal data may only be collected for the purpose of evaluating creditworthiness and
that it should be destroyed immediately after. Art. 8 states that member states shall
ensure the operation of a central negative credit registry and that creditors are obliged to
consult the data base. It is left open for member states, if they want to go beyond such a
negative registry and also establish a positive one. Creditors, however, will be required


7
  In the following, we quote the official version of the Directive as published in the Official Journal
(1995). The full title is: 95/46/EC Directive on the Protection of Individuals with Regard to the
Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of such Data (Directive 95/46/EC).

                                                  6
                                THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

to consult the data base before granting credit. The discussion over this proposal
intensified in the first half of 2003.

2.1.2.2 The German Financial Privacy Regime
Germany has been the leading country in the field of data protection; the first codified
data protection law in the world was enacted in the state of Hesse in 1970. The law
assigned the enforcement authority to an independent data protection commissioner and
served as example for the federal law. Seven years later, in 1977, the first Federal Data
Protection Act was enacted, which established the federal data protection authority
(Bundesbeauftragter für Datenschutz) and granted specific rights to data subjects, such
as access, rectification, blocking or erasure of data. The laws in the individual states
(Bundesländer) had to be amended after 1983, the year the federal Supreme Court ruled
in the census case that citizens have a right to “informational self-determination.”8 This
section recounts the most important German laws in this area.
In 1990, the German government adopted the Federal Data Protection Act
(Bundesdatenschutzgesetz), which was amended in 1994. For the first half of the 1990s,
the Federal Data Protection Act of 1990 (1990 FDPA) and the Amendment of the
Federal Data Protection Act in 1994 (1994 AFDPA) are analysed.
The history of the German data protection laws has been described by Lutterbeck (1998)
who states that there have been three phases. As stated, the first Federal Data Protection
Act provided a common ground for the individual states. It followed a comprehensive
approach in applying to the private and public entities at the same time. The second
phase began in 1990, when the Data Protection Act had to be amended to bring it in line
with the census case of the German Supreme Court. Finally, the third phase started with
the Data Protection Directive. As secondary legislation and further literature
Bundesbeauftragter für Datenschutz (1998, 1999, 2002), European Commission (1998c,
pp. 30-38), Madsen (1992), Mitrou (1993) and Weber (1986) are included in the
analysis.
The transposition of the EU Directive in Germany followed two steps: the first was
intended to implement the essential adjustments, while the second was to establish a
comprehensive overhaul of the data protection laws (European Commission, 1999, p. 6).
In May 2001, the new Federal Data Protection Act of 2001 went into effect, marking the
first step in the implementation of EU law. In the aftermath of the Act, six German states
adopted new privacy protection laws.9 Due to the harmonisation at EU level, various
amendments had been introduced at the national level in the member states, which is the
case in Germany. The recent modifications of the German data protection regime are
also reviewed. In this respect, especially the Amendment of the Federal Data Protection
Act of 2001 (2001 AFDPA) is important.10



8
  This means that it is an individual’s decision whenever and to what extent he or she wants to disclose
personal information.
9
  Brandenburg, Baden-Wurttemberg, Bavaria, Hesse, North Rhine-Westphalia and Schleswig-Holstein.
10
   The German title is Gesetz zur Änderung des Bundesdatenschutzgesetzes und anderer Gesetze.

                                                   7
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

In Germany, creditworthiness data can be used and processed only with written consent
of the data subject. It is common business practice of credit-granting institutions to
include a clause in contracts that enables them to transfer positive data to a credit
register. This is necessary, because in the case of creditworthiness information, the
“legitimate interest” of the bank covers only the transfer of negative data. For positive
data, the bank has to obtain the permission of the data subject. Further explanations are
provided by Bundesbeauftragter für Datenschutz (1998, 1999, 2002) and European
Commission (1998c, 1999).

2.1.2.3 The British Financial Privacy Regime
The debate about privacy legislation in Great Britain started in the early 1970s with a
report by the Younger Committee. This committee proposed 10 guidelines that were
intended to provide basic protection of the individual (Carey and Russell, 2000, p. 1).
The committee proposals were not implemented, but in 1974 major legislation was
enacted to regulate the consumer credit business. The Consumer Credit Act defined
consumer credit business broadly and included “ancillary credit businesses,” a category
that encompasses credit referencing (Goode, 1974, p. 43).
The act stated that such business activities require a licence, which is normally granted
for three years and allows the owner to conduct all activities that are described in it. Any
person engaging in any activities for which a licence is required without holding one
commits an offence. This is explained in the sections 39.1 and 147.1 of the Consumer
Credit Act. The Consumer Credit Act established the early regulation of the credit
reporting business. In 1978, the Lindop Committee published a report that dealt
specifically with the question of data protection (instead of general privacy as did the
Younger Committee). In this report it recommended the establishment of a data
protection authority. However, the British authorities did not react until the Council of
Europe Convention followed in 1981. Three years later, the Data Protection Act of 1984
was passed, which transposed the minimum requirements set out in the Convention. The
Act included eight very broad principles that were not enforceable in courts, but by the
Data Protection Registrar and the Data Protection Tribunal (Carey and Russell, 2000, p.
4). As secondary literature, Carey and Russell (2000), European Commission (1998c,
pp. 17-29), France (1995), Madsen (1992), Goode (1974) are included.
In Great Britain, there are mainly three laws that govern financial data protection: the
Consumer Credit Act (1974), the Data Protection Act (1984) and the Data Protection
Act (1998). The latter transposed the EU Data Protection Directive. It brought
significant changes to the already very complex legislation in Great Britain. The Data
Protection Act of 1998 transposes the Directive 95/46/EC by providing new regulations
of the processing of information relating to individuals, including a notice of purpose of
the data collection as well as the types of data that are collected (Data Protection Act of
1998, chap. 29, part II, 7 (1) a, b). This Act is considered to be the new core of privacy
legislation in Great Britain (European Commission, 1999, p. 8).
The Act of 1998 also provides “principles of good practice”, in which data have to be
processed fairly and lawfully and for only limited purposes. In the case of inaccuracies,
the controller of this data can be mandated to rectify, erase or destroy those data (Data
Protection Act of 1998, chap. 29, part II, 14 [1]). This is very much in line with the new

                                             8
                                 THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

European Directive. Prior to the Directive, the situation in Great Britain resembled that
of the US in the sense that no prior consent to data processing was required. Therefore
the reform introduced new regulations in the field of individual rights, the legitimacy of
data processing, regulations concerning sensitive data and international data flows.
Great Britain has a very complex system of enforcement and supervision. For the 1974
Consumer Credit Act, the Department of Trade and Industry issues regulations, while
the Office of Fair Trading is obligated to supervise the enforcement. For the Data
Protection Act of 1998, however, the Home Office issues regulations, while the
Information Commissioner is the enforcement authority. Concerning the latter act, the
Home Office, for example, released nearly 20 regulations, which add precision and
clarify regulatory details (Carey and Russell, 2000, p. 7).11 As secondary legislation and
further literature, the Department of Trade and Industry (2000), Home Office (2000) and
Carey and Russell (2000) are included. Secondary legislation on credit reference
agencies in Great Britain includes the “Consumer Credit (Conduct of Business) (Credit
References) Regulations 1977 No. 330” which was amended by the “Consumer Credit
(Credit Reference Agency) Regulations 2000, No. 290” and the “Consumer Credit
(Conduct of Business) (Credit References) (Amendment) Regulations 2000, No. 291”.
The latter was released in March 2000. Other important legislative orders are the ones on
fees (Nos. 187 and 188), as well as on processing of sensitive personal data (No. 417).

2.1.2.4 The French Financial Privacy Regime
France has one of the strictest privacy regimes in Europe, based on the 1978 Act on Data
Processing, Data Files and Individual Liberties. This act created the National
Commission for Data Processing and Liberties,12 an independent agency that performs
advisory and monitoring functions. Companies that process personal information are
expected to register with the CNIL. The agency also has the power to deny the license
for data processing (Litan and Swire, 1998, p. 23).
Regulatory power concerning bankruptcy information, on the other hand, is vested in the
Banking and Financial Regulatory Committee (Comité de la Réglementation Bancaire et
Financière, CRBF), a committee that is chaired by the Minister of Economic Affairs and
Finance and includes the Governor of the Banque de France. This committee releases
general regulations governing the establishment of data bases on credit and repayment
(the system is described below in the section on “competition” in France).
By 2002, France had not implemented the Data Protection Directive. In February 1998,
the administration issued a report that described the changes in the law, but by October
of the same year, the Directive should have already been implemented. In 1999, a
proposal of a modified legislation was sent to the National Parliament. No results
emerged during the next year, which led the European Commission to initiate a case

11
   Moreover, the British credit industry has established the agreement “Information-sharing – Principles
of Reciprocity” that regulates the sharing of account information via credit referencing. The agreement
is registered with the Office of Fair Trading. The Standing Committee on Reciprocity (SCOR) oversees
the sharing arrangement. Despite requests, the author was not able to obtain this document.
12
   We refer to the National Commission for Data Processing and Liberties in its original French title, the
Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL).

                                                    9
                                                NICOLA JENTZSCH

before the European Court against France and four other countries that had failed to
transpose the Directive. The CNIL published its opinion concerning the draft bill in
September 2000. The National Assembly reviewed the bill, which is intended to
strengthen the CNIL and to preserve the level of protection granted by the 1978 law, and
it voted in support of it. After the first reading of the bill, however, the process came to a
standstill, because of the elections in France. Therefore, only the Act 78-17 of January
1978 on Data Processing, Data Files and Individual Liberties of 1978 (1978 DPDFIL)13
and the Neiertz Act of 1989 (1989 NA) are included.
Rules and secondary legislation in France are included in Table 2 below. Moreover, two
resolutions of the CNIL are of special interest to us: “Déliberation No. 88-83”
(recommendation concerning the administration of information on borrowers as well as
the right to access and duration of storage) and the “Déliberation No. 98-101”
(Modification of the 88-83 resolution concerning the variable of nationality in scoring
systems) by the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés (1988, 1998a,
1998b, 1999a, 1999b, 2000, 2001).

Table 2. Regulation of the French FICP
Year Title of Regulation                                                                 File
1986 Règlement No. 86-08 du 27 février 1986 relatif à la centralisation des incidents de CPII
     paiement
1989 Neiertz Act (Loi du 31 décembre 1989 relative à la prévention et au règlement des FICP
     difficultés des particuliers et des familles), integrated in the Code de la
     Consommation, Art. L333.4, L333.6
1990 Règlement No. 90-05 du 11 avril 1990 relatif au fichier national des incidents de FICP
     remboursement des crédit aux particuliers
1993 Règlement No. 93-04 du 19 mars 1993                                                 FICP
     Modified the No. 90-05 regulation
1995 Règlement No. 95-03 du 21 juillet 1995                                              CPII
     Modified the No. 86-08 regulation
1996 Règlement No. 96-04 du 24 mai 1996                                                  FICP
     Amends the No. 90-05 regulation
1998 Loi No. 98-657 du 29 juillet 1998 d’orientation relative à la lutte contre les FICP
     exclusions
     Modified the Code de la Consommation Art. 333.4 (Neiertz Act)
2000 Règlement No. 2000-04 du 6 septembre 2000 modifiant le règlement du 11 avril FICP
     1990 relatif au fichier national des incidents de remboursement des crédit aux
     particuliers
     Modified the No. 90-05 regulation

The French system is a centralised public credit registry; therefore, one also has to
include regulations that belong to the 1989 Neiertz Act and are included in the Consumer
Protection Code (Code de la Consommation). The regulations published by the CRBF
have changed so many times in the 1990s that they are presented in Table 2. For further


13
     Original title is Loi No. 78-17 du 6 janvier 1978, relative à l’informatique, aux fichiers et aux libertés.

                                                        10
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

publications on this topic, the reader is referred to the Banque de France (1994, 1995,
1998, 2000a, 2000b, 2001a, 2001b) and Banisar (2000), Leclercq (2000) and Madsen
(1992).
To summarise, all the aforementioned acts and regulations were analysed. The results
constitute an in-depth analysis of data protection in the field of credit reporting. For the
sake of brevity, the survey refrains from presenting the evaluation forms with the
individual acts, their sections and the important sentence that constitutes the right or
task. In the next section, we explain how data protection regimes might be evaluated.

2.2   Current Research on Privacy Evaluation
At the European level, the Commission has to evaluate data protection regimes to find
out if a third country that is not a member of the European Union exhibits adequate data
protection. This is a crucial precondition for data exports to the concerned country.
However, research has not proceeded very far and the tools for evaluation are in their
infancy and might be only seen as first approaches. Moreover, none of them provides a
quantitative measure that would make comparisons easier. Without discussing the known
approaches intensively, we briefly summarise them to contrast our own approach with
them. Bennett (1992) states that there are five different models of privacy regulation that
can be applied to data protection regimes: the Voluntary Control Model, the Subject
Control Model, Licensing Model, Registration Model and the Data Commissioner
Model. Each of these so-called models differs in the way data protection is regulated, if
there are any registration or licensing tasks for data controllers or if there exists a data
protection authority.
Pincus and Johns (1997) criticise Bennett’s approach in judging data protection regimes:
Bennett’s Model only shows the privacy choices of a country with respect to who has
the major responsibility for the protection of data, whereas no mechanism for measuring
the degree or quality of privacy protections is afforded by the single choices. Therefore,
the authors propose a technique for measuring the degree of protection afforded by a
country’s privacy protection scheme. The model consists of two parts, first, the so-called
Privacy Protection Index; and second, the Privacy Protection Scale. Three fields are
included by the authors: 1) constructive notice; 2) commission/body/guidelines; and 3)
remedies, variables in these fields (e.g. data types gathered, storage duration, etc.). Each
variable receives a score that is then added to the others to obtain a total.
Reidenberg and Schwartz (1996) conduct a law analysis for comparing the US and
Europe. This “functional analysis” approach identifies regulations that are functionally
similar to European regulations. The “multi-layered nature of US data protection”
(Reidenberg and Schwartz, 1996, p. 19) excludes any approach that is based upon the
search for a law in the US that is equally comprehensive as the EU laws. Therefore, the
authors compare the specific context of data use (telecommunications, finance, direct
marketing and employment) and examine specific treatments of information. The authors
compare basic elements of European data protection with the combined result of legal
obligations and established practices in the US. They include not only constitutional,
statutory and common law, but also corporate practices or internal policies of companies
(Reidenberg and Schwartz, 1996, p. 25). All in all, the analysis of the authors provides a
comparative overview of principles that are established on both sides of the Atlantic. In

                                            11
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

seven cases, the authors find a similar regulations, two are undecided and two are not
similar.
As stated, the European Commission has the task to evaluate data protection regimes as
mandated by Art. 25 of the Data Protection Directive. In the same article, it is
established that the appraisal of adequate protection in a third country must take into
account all circumstances that are important for a data transfer. It is a common
misunderstanding that the directive implies equivalency. Moreover, the imprecision of
the Directive’s text allows a range of interpretations of what circumstances are meant.
Several factors are mentioned by the directive itself: the nature of data, objective and
duration of postings, country of origin and destination as well as general and sector rules
in effect. The primary evaluation tool of the European Commission is a document from
1998 (European Commission, 1998b). However, as recognised by a group of researchers
in a study for the European Commission (1998d, p. 4), the list given in the Directive is
not exhaustive and no details are given that elaborate on its provisions.
According to the EU Article 29 Working Party, adequate protection “is typically
achieved through a combination of rights for the data subject and obligations on those
who process data (…)” (European Commission, 1998b, p. 5). The Commission finds
that such rules only protect the individual’s right if they are followed in practice. Against
this background, the Commission not only evaluates the applicable rules (via legal
analysis), but also the system to enforce the rules.
Therefore, one finds a two-sided approach: the rule’s content is taken into account as
well as the means for their effective implementation. This can be described as a flexible
discretionary “country-by-country approach” that is more pragmatic than “juristic and
abstract” (European Commission, 1998d, p. 4).
The Commission looks at principles of content as well as the enforcement of those
principles. Such principles address, for example, the processing only for limited
purposes, the rights of access and correction as well as technical security measures.
In 2003, there were only three countries that had been judged as providing adequate
protection: Hungary, Switzerland and Canada. The US, on the other hand, is a special
case. The establishment of a “safe harbour” agreement is said to create an environment
of adequate protection, whereas as ad hoc solution contractual agreements between
companies are also said to provide adequate protection. Since we do not elaborate on
this, the interested reader is referred to the decision of the European Commission (2000).

2.3   Evaluation Instrument
The herewith presented approach is based upon the dissatisfaction with the
aforementioned works. Although most of them are relatively useful, none of them
provides a simple comparison that is at the same time quantitative and more transparent.
The presented approach differs in two important respects: more aspects are evaluated
(due to the interest in credit reporting only) and federal acts are included, official
decisions and regulatory rules by the appropriate departments or administration offices as
well as informal directives (especially in the case of Germany). Professional rules and
codes of conduct are excluded, since these rules are not established by democratically
legitimised bodies.

                                             12
                             THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Information flows in consumer credit markets do reveal network character. Networks
interconnect several players: the right of one player may (at the same time) be the task of
the other player. This is the case if the data subject exerts the right of access that is the
task to disclose the information on the side of the credit bureau. Facing these
interdependencies, we admit that a clear categorisation like “catalogue of data subject
rights” and “duties of credit bureaus” is not always possible. This problem is reinforced
by including the information stream from consumer to data-contributing player and to the
credit bureau. For simplification purposes, we developed four major categories:
1.    Supervisory authority (SA)
2.    Property rights to information (PR)
3.    Obligations by credit bureaus (OC)
4.    Judicial remedies and enforcement (JR)
Data-contributing players are excluded, since this would include the whole field of
banking acts or insurance legislation, for example (if they are not regulated by a
comprehensive data protection law). The evaluation instrument is presented in Table A1
in the annex.
The privacy regimes are evaluated for every year within the timeframe 1990-2001.
Therefore, our analysis constitutes one of the first dynamic ones in the field of data
protection. Each time new regulations are introduced, the evaluation instrument captures
their effect and the index changes accordingly. The results of the absolute values gained
by the individual countries are presented in Table 3.

Table 3. Absolute numbers of regulations in four selected countries
Country         1990 1991   1992   1993   1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
US               19    19    20    20     20        20   19   23    26     26     28    28
Europe           17    17    17    17     17        17   17   17    33     33     33    33
Germany          34    34    34    34     34        34   34   35    35     36     36    38
Great Britain    26    26    26    26     27        27   27   27    27     35     36    36
France           40    40    40    40     38        38   38   38    38     39     39    39



2.4     Financial Privacy Index (FPI)
With an index constructed for the quantitative regulation evaluation it is possible to rate
countries on a continuum of regulatory regimes. Moreover, an index allows inter-
temporal comparisons and enhances the understanding of regulatory trends. The
following approach uses a systematic sample (not a random one). It is clear that the
results only hold for the reviewed countries. Due to our approach, we are able to
produce a time-series. We briefly explain how the index is constructed and then discuss
the results.

2.4.1 Construction of the Financial Privacy Index
Indices are numbers that summarise economic information and show relative changes. In
our case, insights derived from index theory are applied to measure regulatory trends (for
a discussion of methodology see Jentzsch, 2003b and Jentzsch, forthcoming). There are

                                               13
                                        NICOLA JENTZSCH

several multiplicative indices available; we chose the Cobb-Douglas index that uses
weights independently from its values or value shares.
This index, however, is a “theoretical curiosity” that normally serves the purpose of
explaining that it is a uniqueness theorem that satisfies all five fundamental axioms.14 In
the context of price measurement, the index is of no real value, since it lacks an
economic interpretation of its weights and the whole index (or the denominator) can
become zero, i.e. determinateness is not fulfilled (for further discussion, the reader is
referred to Eichhorn and Voeller, 1983; Selvanathan and Rao, 1994; Jentzsch, 2003b;
Jentzsch, forthcoming; and von der Lippe, 2002). Especially the latter characteristic does
not make sense in price measurement. The index is therefore not widely used in
academia.
In our context of regulation measurement, however, such peculiar characteristics are
appreciated. The multiplicative feature accounts for the strong interdependencies we
observe due to the strong interrelation of the indicators for property rights and judicial
remedies, for example
As most indices, the index is constructed through the addition of indicators based upon
the same range of value (0=non-existent, 1=existent). A simple additive index, however,
behaves in a way that is not appreciated here, because the score of zero in one
component (SA, PR, OC or JR) can be balanced by positive values in other components.
If there is no judicial remedy or punishment for privacy breaches, enforcement is non-
existent. In this theoretical case all other regulations are rendered ad absurdum as they
cannot be enforced; only the multiplicative construction accounts for this. The whole
index becomes 0 as soon as the judicial remedies variable becomes 0 or in the theoretical
case of no regulations (xSA, xPR, xOC = 0). The latter, however, is irrelevant taking the
empirical reality into consideration. We can therefore conclude that the Cobb-Douglas
index accounts for total ineffectiveness of data protection, if there are no judicial
remedies.
While this characteristic can be appreciated, the Cobb-Douglas index does not meet the
factor reversal test. However, when fixed weights are assigned, it fulfils the time reversal
test and the circular test, i.e. transitivity exists (for further discussion, the reader is
referred to Jentzsch, 2003b). Therefore, the index allows consistent comparisons of
adjacent periods when weights are held constant (which is the case in our application).
For constructing the index, a base has to be selected. This, however, influences the
behaviour of the index and – more important – it may produce biased results. If the
benchmark in the base period is too high, it artificially depresses the index and vice versa.
It also has to be avoided to take the number of regulations of one country as a
benchmark. For instance, if the US (1990) had been chosen, this would have been a
relatively low level of protection (hence an overstating of the indices for other countries).
This problem can be avoided by computing an “artificial base” at a hypothetical period t.
It is the maximum score achievable in the categories SA, PR, OC and JR, divided by


14
  Five fundamental axioms are monotonicity, price-dimensionality, linear homogeneity, identity and
commensurability. Not all of these characteristics are important for our purposes.

                                               14
                                     THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

factor 2. This assures that half of the index (and not the maximum) serves as benchmark.
Moreover, we include the EU as a “country”, but direct comparisons have to be viewed
carefully, since the EU is obviously not a country and provides only the frame of
harmonisation. This explains the low level in the EU until the Data Protection Directive
remarkably increased the integration depth.
In the present case, there are “quantities” of regulatory measures that are used as
weights, the whole index has a “quantity character.”15 This approach can be justified ex
ante under the hypothesis that for practical purposes, approximate weights are sufficient
and in our case they are already implicitly given.
                                                   α         α             α
                                        n    x 11  1  x 12  2  x 1n  n                                n
(1)                          CDI =     ∏           
                                             x0   x0 
                                       i =1  1   2 
                                                               K
                                                                   x0 
                                                                   n
                                                                                          with α i > 0,   ∑α = 1
                                                                                                           i =1
                                                                                                                  i


                                                                  α            α
                                        x tSA
                                             +1       +1
                                                + x tPR      t +1  1  t +1  2
                                                         + x OC
(2)                          FPI =                                 x JR 
                                        x t + xt + xt   xt 
                                        SA          PR        OC   JR 

Equation (1) presents a general notation of the Cobb-Douglas index (CDI). In equation
(2) the weights are assigned on a quantity basis. The values as derived are 0.8261 for α 1
and 0.1739 for α 2 ; for simplification, we have rounded them to 0.8 and 0.2. The xSA
denotes values achieved in the category “supervisory authority”, xPR denotes those
achieved in “property rights to information”, xOC in “obligations of credit bureaus” and
xJR in “judicial remedies”. Results are given in the Table 4 below.

Table 4. Cobb-Douglas Financial Privacy Index

Country      1990     1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996         1997   1998   1999      2000       2001
US            0.78    0.78     0.84      0.84      0.84      0.84      0.78        0.93   1.12   1.12      1.20       1.20
Europe        0.73    0.73     0.73      0.73      0.73      0.73      0.73        0.73   1.42   1.42      1.42       1.42
Germany       1.47    1.47     1.47      1.47      1.47      1.47      1.47        1.50   1.50   1.56      1.56       1.65
Britain       1.05    1.05     1.05      1.05      1.09      1.09      1.09        1.09   1.09   1.51      1.55       1.55
France        1.74    1.74     1.74      1.74      1.64      1.64      1.64        1.64   1.64   1.69      1.69       1.69



2.4.2 Results of the Financial Privacy Index
In the overall comparison, the FPI1 shows that the US in general remains below EU
member states’ levels in the direct country comparison. In the inter-temporal comparison
within the US, the FPIs indicate that laws and federal guidelines became stricter after
1996 due to reforms under the Clinton administration. However, even after the acts were
introduced, the US did not converge with the other countries, but remained below their
levels (see Table 4 above).
The indices are relatively robust for the results of US-EU comparisons. It is important to
emphasise that these results are only valid for the very specific field of credit reporting


15
  It is possible to empirically estimate the weights, however, data on such variables like times a right is
exerted by a data subject is not existent.

                                                          15
                                               NICOLA JENTZSCH

regulation, one of the strictest regulated fields in the US economy. As expected, we also
observe a convergence among European regimes, the upward trend after 1998 shows
this. EU member countries are generally above the EU level.
What drives the indices in the individual countries? The US showed strong gains in the
category of obligations to credit bureaus (OC) as well as after 1997 in the category that
counts the rights of data subjects (PR). We also observe that there have been more
changes in legislation than in any of the other countries. Germany, on the other hand,
gained in the same categories as the US (OC and PR), and the same was the case for
Great Britain. France already had a very high level of data protection. France displays
more tasks for data controllers. The development and behaviour of the indices are
plotted in Figure 1.

Figure 1. Cobb-Douglas Financial Privacy Indices (1990-2001)
         2,00


         1,80


         1,60


         1,40


         1,20                                                                                              US
                                                                                                           Europe
   FPI




         1,00                                                                                              Germany
                                                                                                           GB
         0,80                                                                                              France

         0,60


         0,40


         0,20


         0,00
                1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995          1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
                                                          year



In reviewing these functions, it can be observed that some of the indices (France and the
US) also decrease. This behaviour accounts for the fact that there were rights or tasks
established that later have been repealed. This is for example the case for the 1992
decision of the Federal Trade Commission in the US to oblige credit bureaus to disclose
credit scores, which was revised with the CCRRA of 1996. In France, periods for
storage of certain data categories have been expanded. One may state that the longer the
period, the less the data protection (very strict protection in this sense would not allow
any storage of such data at all). We also observe a major jump in the EU FPI. This is due
to the increased depth of integration and partially also because of interdependencies in
the index.
What are the major qualitative differences between the US and the EU? In the
supervisory bloc in the EU and unlike the practise in the US, it is the authorities’
competence to administer a publicly accessible list of data controllers and the



                                                      16
                                 THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

competence of authorities to regulate international data flows.16 In the bloc of property
rights to information, we find differences in the opt-out system of the US as compared to
the opt-in system in the EU. Moreover, there are regulations on automated decisions in
the EU that do not exist in the US. In the case of the obligations on credit bureaus, we
find major differences in the absence in the US of any registering or restrictions on
excessive data collection, which apply in the EU, as well as any explicit security
measures.
In summary, there is an international trend showing a weaker regime in the US and a
more stringent one in Europe. This result holds also for the period after 1995. Viewed
from a broader perspective, the indices show differences in the regulation of credit
reporting agencies and gaps in data protection that may eventually divert information
flows in consumer credit markets, because of the relocation of data controllers.
However, one has to be careful in interpreting the index results and especially the
absolute scores of the individual countries. If a country A achieved the number of 30
regulations and country B of 15, one cannot interpret this result as “A has data
protection twice as stringent as B,” which would constitute a qualitative interpretation.
From the approach above one may only derive that “A has twice as much data protection
regulations as B.” In the absence of other variables, we interpret that as a proxy for the
quality of the data protection regimes, that is, whether the evaluated regime is a less
stringent or more stringent one.
In a further step, we estimate the costs that are connected with the different data
protection regimes. This however may only be seen as explorative analysis, since the set
of data collected from a survey of credit bureaus is incomplete. It is very difficult to
receive replies from some of the credit bureaus, which severely inhibits research in this
field. We proceed as follows: first we discuss the costs that are associated with some of
the surveyed regulations. Then we conduct a statistical analysis of the impact of data
protection on consumer credit markets.

3.     Credit Markets and the Costs of Privacy Regulation
3.1    Costs of Data Protection
In all of the reviewed countries it is possible for data subjects to demand to see
information that is stored by credit reporting agencies. This right to access as well as
disclosure is a cost factor for the companies. We compiled data from different bureaus in
the US, Germany and Great Britain. The results are averages weighted by the market
share of the agencies. The results are not representative and only hold for the companies
that answered the questionnaire. The figures might nevertheless still be suggestive.




16
   This regulation does not necessarily have to be established under a central authority of a data
protection officer. As far as judicial courts or governmental departments are involved, the author granted
a positive value in the evaluation.

                                                   17
                                                NICOLA JENTZSCH

Table 5. Average costs related to access and disclosure*
Task of data controller                      US                         Germany                      UK
                                             ( €)                         ( €)                       (€)
                                   1995              2001          1995         2001        1995           2001
ACCESS AND CORRECTION
Average total cost of a credit
report directed at the data       0.45               0.26           9.65        10.77      21.24           15.55
subject
Average working time (in
minutes) for preparation of    8.65 min.        5.20 min.        11.66 min.   12.39 min.   35 min.     37 min.
report
Fee charged to subject for
disclosure of consumer report     7.90             8.61             8.28         7.14      15.67        16.38
No. of credit reports                           4,876,270         540,950      715,886                 730,000
requested by data subjects        n/a           (0.01711)        (0.00662)    (0.00897)      n/a      (0.01216)
(scaled by population)
Average total costs of
correction of a credit profile    7.89               7.30          21.06        25.87        n/a            n/a

Average working time
(minutes) spent on correction    7.22 min.      5.66 min.        30.30 min.   32.65 min.     n/a            n/a
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY
Time spent on negotiations       325 hrs.           500 hrs.      100 hrs.     176 hrs.      n/a       81 hrs.
with data protection
authorities (hours)
Time spent on                    100,750        125,775           207,550      249,076       n/a            n/a
data protection issues by data   hrs./year      hrs./year         hrs./year    hrs./year
protection appointee
Opportunity costs produced          n/a               n/a        6,641,511    8,304,720      n/a            n/a
by data protection appointee
(p.a.)
GER/UK: Cost of seminars            n/a               n/a         58,141       74,992        n/a           1,500
and training concerning data
protection (p.a.)
* Numbers represent weighted averages (with weights derived from markets shares of credit bureaus), except for
the Great Britain (arithmetic averages). Exchange rates are as of 17 January 2003; numbers are rounded.

The direct comparison in Table 5 shows that US bureaus are cost efficient in terms of the
average costs (including labour costs) of generating a credit report that is directed to the
data subject. For the reviewed companies in the UK, this seems not to be the case: here
the costs are relatively high compared to the US and Germany. This picture also holds
for time efficiency in the case of the preparation of the reports. In Germany and the UK,
the companies generally estimate that the costs of generating a report for the consumer is
above the actual fees they charge. With a more comprehensive survey that is
representative, those results could be verified for the whole population of credit bureaus.
In general, the information distribution in the consumer credit market of the US exceeds
that of the European countries. A sign of the confidence in the system might be given by
the number of consumers that actually demand to see their credit report. When scaled by
population, the numbers show that in Germany the consumer is least likely to demand the

                                                            18
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

report. This could be due to the fact that the public is less aware of credit reporting or
that the system functions more smoothly. In UK, on the other hand, consumers seem to
be more concerned and the number is the highest for the US.
The average costs of correcting a profile for the reviewed companies also differs at least
for Germany and the US. Again, we view lower costs in the US and lower working time
spent on correction of a profile. The differences might be due to scale economies in the
US, but also due to public pressure and a more efficient use of information technologies.
The picture reverses itself when one compares the annual hours spent to negotiate with
data protection authorities on the national as well as state level. It seems that there is
more time involved in the US than in Germany, which could be due to negotiations but
also due to the fact that there is more lobbying in general conducted in the US. However,
when the time is estimated that is attributed to data protection in general, Germany takes
the lead. The mandatory data protection officer in information-intensive companies in
Germany is a major cost factor.
In general it could be assumed that more stringent data protection regimes that pose
more obligations upon credit reporting agencies help to increase consumer awareness
and reinforce the incentive of consumers to request, correct and dispute files. From the
casual evidence above, however, the opposite seems to be the case: the weaker the data
protection, the more complaints about privacy breaches and the higher the public
awareness. This translates into pressure on companies to increase their efficiency by
setting up adequate systems for consumer contact. In the US, this was demonstrated by
the charges that Experian, TransUnion and Equifax had to pay in 2000 due to violations
of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Together, these agencies had to pay $2.5 million for
failing to maintain a toll-free telephone number at which their personnel are accessible
for consumers during business hours. According to a Federal Trade Commission press
release (Federal Trade Commission, 2000c), the agencies, “blocked millions of calls from
consumers who wanted to discuss the contents and possible errors in their credit reports
and kept some of those consumers on hold for unreasonably long periods of time.” Such
charges obviously increase the incentive to provide more efficient access for consumers.
The disclosure fees also seem to be lower in the United States than in Great Britain and
Germany. It is difficult to explain such prices (in Germany and Great Britain), since
advances in computer technology should have contributed to the cost efficiency of such
activities. However, working time spent on data protection issues, mainly by the
appointee in a company seems to be higher in Germany (no data are available for the
UK). As stated, the evidence is only casual and it is more appropriate to conduct a
statistical analysis of privacy regulations and their effects on consumer credit markets.
This is also a way to estimate the “economic costs” of data protection.

3.2   Credit Markets and Information Sharing
The relationship between credit markets, information sharing and credit reporting has
been at the centre of several studies in the past (for an overview, see Table 6). We briefly
summarise the evidence to date and then present our own approach. One of the first
empirical surveys of information-sharing and credit markets is that of Pagano and
Jappelli (1993). The authors collected information on 14 OECD countries and divided

                                            19
                                                NICOLA JENTZSCH

them into two groups: one with widespread information-sharing and one with data
exchange on a smaller scale.17 The authors find that countries with credit bureaus exhibit
high mobility of consumers and deep consumer credit markets.

Table 6. Surveys of economic activity of credit bureaus
     Authors             Study design and methodology                                   Results

 Jappelli          39-country comparison                           Theoretical predictions are consistent with the
 and                                                               data: Information sharing (IS) increases bank
 Pagano            Population: Public and private credit bureaus   lending, reduces credit risk and is negatively
 (2000a)           Methodology: Regression analysis                correlated with default rates (weak correlation)

 Jappelli          17-country comparison (EU plus Turkey)          Privacy protection affects the amount of
 and                                                               information shared;
 Pagano            Population: Public and private credit bureaus   CBs originate from local lenders; consolidation
 (2000b)           Methodology: Description                        of the industry


 Pagano and        14-country survey (OECD)                        IS is positively related to borrower mobility and
 Jappelli (1993)                                                   heterogeneity, size of credit market and advances
                   Population: Public and private credit bureaus   in IT;
                   Methodology: Regression analysis                IS increases lending volume if adverse selection
                                                                   is severe


Moreover, Pagano and Jappelli (1993, p. 1693 and p. 1714) argue that the incentives of
lenders to share information about borrowers (via a credit bureau) are positively
correlated to the mobility and heterogeneity of borrowers and the advances in
information technologies. The size of the market increases the incentive to share
information, on the one hand, while the benefit of setting up a credit bureau rises with
the increase in loan demand, household mobility and the decrease of operational costs of
the system as well as with the uncertainty about borrower quality. Furthermore, the
utility of a reporting system increases with the number of participants; therefore, credit
bureaus are natural monopolies (Pagano and Jappelli, 1993, p. 1699).
In a follow-up paper, Jappelli and Pagano (2000a) collect information for a sample of 39
countries (1994-95). Those are divided in three groups: countries without a register, a
negative one only or a positive register. The authors then experiment with different
indicators of information-sharing and variables on credit markets.
In testing for information-sharing and bank lending, the authors rely on quality of
information shared (exchange of negative information only and exchange of negative and
positive information). With information-sharing, the ratio of bank lending to GDP is
higher. Their test on the relationship of information-sharing and credit risk shows that
countries with data exchange have lower average credit risk (the latter is the
International Country Risk Guide Financial Indicator, ICRGF). Information-sharing
reduces the credit risk indicator by 3 points, which may translate into a 1 percentage



17
  For the purpose of surveying only the consumer credit markets, the authors exclude mortgage reports
(Pagano and Jappelli, 1993).

                                                        20
                                 THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

point reduction in the fraction of non-performing loans. In general, default rates are
negatively correlated with information-sharing indicators.
In summary, information-sharing is associated with larger bank lending to the private
sector, and mitigates credit risk (as measured by default rates). This is also the case if
one controls for other economic and institutional variables like growth rate and rule of
law.
Like many regression analyses, these results suffer from data problems (noisy indicators)
and the reverse causality problem. The result that information-sharing leads to greater
breadth and depth of consumer credit markets might very well be the other way round:
since credit markets are broader and more transactions take place, information-sharing is
higher.18 This problem is acknowledged by the authors.
Further guidance on the relationship of credit reporting, general information-sharing and
restrictions posed upon data uses might come from micro-level analysis that experiment
with prediction precision of scoring models in creditworthiness tests. The latter
approaches to information-sharing and risk prediction are empirical tests of the
prediction precision of scorecards (for an overview of scoring development, see Thomas,
2000). Scoring models are statistical methods to evaluate the credit risk associated with
the borrower. In general, these models have one assumption in common: data about past
payment behaviour is useful for predicting future performance. This future performance
includes voluntary and involuntary default. The first is strategic default, while the latter is
involuntary, caused by unexpected unemployment or illness (see also Jentzsch and San
José Riestra, 2003).19
In general, the micro-level works analyse the influences that are eroding the prediction
precision of scoring models. This is mainly tested for the US. One reason for this might
be the widespread use of scoring as well as the highly advanced development in the US.
In general, two sources of potential deterioration of a model can be separated: statistical
insufficiencies (due to population drifts, for instance) and privacy-related restrictions of
predictor availability. The latter are of special importance for the present study. The
omitted-variables problem might arise when certain variables are not used due to privacy
restrictions such as contained in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) in the US
and in Europe, in the Data Protection Directive and the acts in the individual member
states. This might lead to an underfitting of scoring models when predictors reveal
statistically significant correlation, but are not included in a scorecard. Only lately has
this problem been addressed by different authors (Barron and Staten, 2000; Boyes,
Hoffman and Low, 1986; and Bostic and Calem, forthcoming).
These studies show that the prediction precision of a model deteriorates when certain
variables are forbidden. Bostic and Calem (forthcoming) analyse this effect for the
gender variable, and Barron and Staten (2000) test these effects for whole information-

18
   This view may be underpinned by historical evidence. In the US, banks were the first to be founded
(during colonial times) and credit bureaus followed nearly a century later. One of the first credit bureaus
was established in 1860 in Brooklyn (Cole, 1992, p. 220).
19
   The latter is especially a cause for over-indebtedness in the US, due to the health system and reduced
insurance coverage of households.

                                                    21
                                          NICOLA JENTZSCH

sharing regimes in the US and Australia. The US is a positive-negative regime – the
distribution of both types of information is allowed, while Australia constitutes a
negative information regime. Barron and Staten (2000) find that the restriction of
information sets of market participants increases fuzzy risk predicting and decreases
allocative efficiency. The authors show how the Australian information set produces
higher rates of type-I and type-II errors.20 Accordingly, the more precise discrimination
of formerly pooled borrowers increases approval rates, whereas an information set with
only negative predictor variables reduces these rates.
In summary, the presented studies show that restrictions on predictive scoring variables
reduce the efficiency of credit scoring models. This also holds if the amount of
information used is varied, like in the Barron-Staten approach. The potential costs of
privacy regulations can be quantified economically by the deadweight loss due to
reduced credit availability, but also by the reduced efficiency if type-I and type-II errors
lead to a misallocation of credit.

3.3   Data Protection and Consumer Credit Markets
The effects of data protection on consumer credit markets are not quite clear. On the one
hand, there could be positive effects due to increasing transparency of information flows,
but on the other data protection acts might reduce the information available to market
participants. The studies reviewed above analyse information-sharing both on the macro-
level by reviewing effects on credit markets and on the micro-level by testing scoring
models. In the following, we present our set of variables and our approach to the analysis
of economic costs associated with different data protection regimes.

3.3.1 Hypotheses
The major research question is whether a more stringent data protection regime
(measured by higher FPI) inhibits information allocation in consumer credit markets. This
could be postulated as the first hypothesis: the higher the FPI, the lower the information
allocation. A second major interest is to find out if a lower information allocation (as
approximated by the credit report sales) is associated with a higher credit risk. After
reviewing the micro- and macro-level literature, it may be stated that more stringent data
protection regimes are associated with lower information allocation and higher credit
risk, because financial service providers have less information on consumers to evaluate
their risk. This may result in misinformed credit decisions that translate into higher credit
risk on the macroeconomic level. Therefore, our second hypothesis is that lower
information allocation is associated with higher credit risk.
A further group of hypotheses refers to credit market characteristics. Lower information
allocation is thought to result in thinner credit markets (lower percentage of consumer
credit to GDP) and lower consumer indebtedness. We assume the latter since consumer
indebtedness is supposed to rise in countries with more credit financing and broader
credit markets.


20
  Type-I errors are omission errors in denying good risks credit, whereas type-II errors are errors of
commission in granting loans to bad risks (see also Barron and Staten, 2000, p. 21).

                                                 22
                                THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

We proceed as follows. We estimate the relations between the variables by conducting a
series of tests using Pearson product-moment correlations for the individual countries
and for cross-country analysis. In a further step, we expand the tests by including a
cross-country partial correlation analysis.21
Studies in the field of credit reporting and consumer credit markets typically suffer from
problematic data sets (the present study is no exemption). The reason for this is the lack
of proper official data on important variables such as credit risk and the lack of data from
private sources such as credit bureaus. The typical methodology employed in this field is
a large country panel and regression analysis.
The presented approach differs, however. We reviewed only four industrialised
countries, but for the period 1990-2001. For the tests, we work with a new data set and
with data from the European Credit Research Institute. An overview of the variables is
presented in Box 1 below. Since we also requested information from credit bureaus in
the US, Great Britain and Germany (there are no credit reporting agencies in France),
this information was included in our estimates about information allocation and costs of
data protection.

 Box 1. Overview of variables used in the study
 Financial privacy indices      The set of variables is the multiplicative Cobb-Douglas index. The
 (FPI)                          index is based upon a set of absolute values of data regulations in each
                                country for the years 1990-2001. The index is a proxy for data
                                protection regimes in the specific field of consumer credit reporting.
 Information allocation         Information allocation is the absolute number of credit reports sold in a
 (RS)                           country on a yearly basis. Since this number cannot be observed
                                directly, it had to be estimated by using either already published
                                estimated or own data. The estimation procedure is not disclosed for
                                confidentiality purposes. RS stands for reports scaled (i.e. sold to
                                financial service providers). Source: the author.
 Consumer indebtedness          Consumer indebtedness is a ratio expressing the volume of consumer
 (CI)                           credit outstanding relative to the disposable income of households. This
                                ratio rises with the increase of borrowing to finance consumption.
                                Source: ECRI.
 Credit-financed                Credit-financed consumption is outstanding consumer credit as
 consumption                    percentage of private consumption. This measures the weight of credit
 (CCPPC)                        in private consumption transactions. Source: ECRI.
 Consumer credit                This data set is constituted of interest rates on consumer loans to
 interest rates (INT)           households. For the European countries these numbers are non-
                                harmonised. Source: ECB, National Retail Interest Rates Statistics. For
                                the US, data are taken from the Federal Reserve’s G.19 consumer credit
                                statistics (commercial banks interest rates).
 Real GDP growth                Real GDP growth is percentage change from previous period. The US
 (GDP)                          uses chain-weighted indices to calculate real GDP and expenditure
                                components. Numbers are available for 1990-2001; for 2001 numbers



21
  The author repeated the tests below with inflation-corrected terms and by controlling for GDP growth.
The results, however, did not change significantly and they are not reported.

                                                  23
                                                  NICOLA JENTZSCH

                                    are projections. Source: OECD, Economic Outlook, 2001.
 Credit risk                        Credit risk is household-debt service burden, which is the ratio of debt
 (RISK)                             payments, i.e. minimum payments and interest rate payments on
                                    consumer credit to disposable income. Source for US: Federal Reserve.
                                    Source for Europe: the authors calculations (based on data from the
                                    ECB, ECRI, national central banks and estimates of commercial
                                    financial service providers).


The first set is the FPI. As elaborated above, the index is a very specific measure that
was only applied to credit reporting regulation. Therefore, the index is precise enough to
capture the most important regulations.
The variable for information allocation (RS stands for reports scaled), on the other hand,
is more problematic. The credit bureaus were asked to disclose their sales for the years
1995 and 2001, associated growth rates in the 1990s and the percentage of credit reports
sold to financial service providers. From the data, the percentage of reports sold for
consumer credit purposes could be estimated. These numbers, together with estimates
from other sources (like industry publications) were compiled to serve as a rough proxy
for information allocation. The number was then scaled by the population in the country.
The results are plotted in Figure 2.

Figure 2. Information allocation in four selected countries (1990-2001)

  2,5




   2




  1,5
                                                                                               Germany
                                                                                               France
                                                                                               United Kingdom
                                                                                               United States
   1




  0,5




   0
        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995     1996    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001




The credit market indicators are less problematic. Consumer indebtedness (CI) is the
ratio of consumer credit outstanding to disposable income of households. Credit-
financed consumption is the outstanding consumer credit as a percentage of private
consumption (CCPPC) and as credit market breadth or availability, we included
consumer credit (excluding mortgages) as a percentage of GDP (CCGDP). On consumer
credit interest rates (INT), moreover, data from the European Central Bank and the
Federal Reserve Board is used. These data are available for all countries, except for the
Great Britain (1990-95).

                                                           24
                                                   THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Real GDP growth rates (GDP) as proxy for business cycle fluctuations were collected
from the OECD Economic Outlook (with estimates for 2001). Another somewhat
problematic variable is the credit risk estimate (RISK). For the US, there are official
numbers on debt-service burden of households: the service on consumer debt in relation
to disposable income.22 This service includes average monthly minimum payments as
well as interest rate payments. European numbers are calculated by using consumer
credit interest rates and disposable income. However, data on minimum payments are
neither collected by the European Central Bank nor by the individual central banks.
Therefore, estimates from governmental departments as well as financial service
providers were used. With these estimates it was possible to construct a time-series of
credit risk in the individual countries, however, some of the information is missing in the
case of Great Britain.23 The results are plotted in Figure 3.

Figure 3. Estimated credit risk in four selected countries (1990-2001)

            12,00




            10,00




             8,00


                                                                                                               U.S.
     risk




                                                                                                               Germany
             6,00
                                                                                                               Great Britain
                                                                                                               France


             4,00




             2,00




             0,00
                    1990


                           1991


                                  1992


                                         1993


                                                1994


                                                       1995


                                                                     1996


                                                                            1997


                                                                                   1998


                                                                                          1999


                                                                                                 2000


                                                                                                        2001




                                                              Year



We also discussed the inclusion of other possible intervening variables such as creditor
rights as presented by La Porta et al. (1997). This is problematic, however, since the
indicator is estimated only for one year. There is not really an statistical explanation for
including it as constant quantity.




22
   This is regarded to be “credit risk”, because it tends to lead delinquencies and predict bankruptcies
(Maki, 2000, p. 5)
23
   This is a better approximation of (consumer) credit risk than other indicators such as the ICRGF
which includes risks unrelated to consumer credit (such as losses from exchange controls).

                                                                                   25
                                       NICOLA JENTZSCH

3.3.2 Pearson’s Correlations for Individual Countries
Results for the test of interdependency of FPI and information allocation for the
individual countries are given in Tables A2-A5 in the Annex. For the US, we have a
strong positive correlation (.873) that is statistically significant at the 0.01 level. The
same holds for Germany (.919) and Great Britain (.843), both statistically significant at
the 0.01 level. Note that the signs are positive. The implication of this is contrary to our
hypothesis that higher FPIs are associated with lower information allocation. It seems
that for those countries the reverse is true: the higher the distribution of credit reports,
the higher is also the FPI (that is, more data protection regulations exist). We will
explain this counterintuitive result further below. France, however, displays a correlation
that is statistically not significant. Growth rates of disclosures in France could be severely
underestimated, producing a misleading result in this case.
The observation that in other countries sales of credit reports increase with increasing
data protection regulations crucially depends on assumptions about credit report sales.
As stated, we had to estimate the numbers, but from the questionnaires of our survey we
got strong evidence that suggests that credit report sales increased remarkably in the
1990s, which is certainly due to increasing information technology adoption and the
reduced costs of administration of such files. The results cannot, of course, be
interpreted as causality. However, the strength of the relationship proposes an alternative
explanation that can be further augmented by historical evidence.
It seems that increasing information allocation leads to increasing public awareness about
privacy problems in general. In the 1990s, this was accompanied by the large-scale
adoption of the internet that further raised such concerns. In a political economy
approach, one might state that this awareness translated into increasing pressure from
constituents to alter legislation and increase the rights of data subjects and the tasks for
data controllers. That is something we could demonstrate by the evaluation of individual
countries and the upward trend in the FPIs. Increasing data protection awareness has
obviously not been on the agenda of the French data subjects – they already enjoy very
high protection. Of course, it would be necessary to wait another ten years to measure
how the legislative changes in the latter half of the 1990s affected the relationship of the
FPI and information distribution in the long-run.
The second hypothesis stated that increasing credit report sales increase risk prediction
capabilities of financial service providers and therefore should be negatively correlated
with credit risk on the aggregate level. As we review the individual countries, we get
mixed evidence for such a relationship (Tables A2-A5 in the Annex).
Again, we take the scaled credit report distribution, but this time, we relate it to credit
risk. For the US and France, the coefficients are not statistically significant. Germany, on
the other hand, displays a negative correlation (-.780) and Great Britain a positive one
(.918), both statistically significant at the 0.01 level. Therefore, the tests on the level of
individual countries do not show any clear relation between information distribution and
credit risk.
Another interesting question is whether reduced sales of credit reports result in less
access to consumer credit (as a percentage of GDP) and lower levels of consumer
indebtedness. The connection between sales of credit reports and consumer credit as a

                                             26
                             THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

percentage of GDP is the following. In the US (.777), the Great Britain (.899) and
France (.939), the relationship is positive and significant. That means that higher sales of
reports are associated with a higher ratio of consumer credit and GDP. Access, if we
interpret the variable in this way, is then increased by higher information allocation.
Germany, however, does not fit this picture, for here we discern no statistically
significant relationship. The same kind of association also holds for consumer
indebtedness in the US (.790), the Great Britain (.890) and France (.925). Here too,
Germany displays no relationship. Along with the broadened access to consumer credit
(facilitated by the increasing distribution of information about potential borrowers)
comes the increase of consumer indebtedness. The latter is highly associated with this
expanded access.
We originally assumed that stringent data protection rules reduce information allocation.
This relationship cannot be observed in the individual countries, instead the contrary
holds. If we directly test for the association of the FPI with credit access and consumer
indebtedness, the following picture emerges: in the first case a positive correlation exists
only for the US and Great Britain as English common law countries. The correlations for
Germany and France are again not significant in both tests. Therefore, we find no general
relationship that would hold for all of our countries. In a next step, we turn to cross-
country evidence.

3.3.3 Pearson’s Correlations and Cross-Country Evidence
Due to the very little numbers of observations in each country, we expand the tests by
conducting a cross-country analysis. On the background of the initial tests, we now
modify the first hypothesis by stating that a higher FPI is correlated with higher
information allocation. The results of the analysis are presented in Table A6 in the annex.
This time, however, the association of both indicators is statistically significant correlated
with a negative sign (-.622) – the one we would have expected in the analysis above. In
cross-country comparisons, a higher FPI is obviously associated with lower credit report
sales. This reinforces our initial assumption that the US, for example, has lower data
protection and more credit report sales, whereas the opposite holds for more stringent
data protection regimes like France.
Within the individual countries, however, the relation seems to be positive due to the
reasons explained above. The political economy approach, however, does not work on
the international level, since there is no international data protection authority to which
complaints could be directed (note that we have not included an EU aggregate). Note
also that we did not rely upon absolute indicators of consumer credit markets, but on
percentages of GDP.
Concerning information allocation and credit risk, we did not receive a strong result that
credit report sales decrease credit risk. Therefore, we reiterate our assumption that the
variables must be intuitively correlated in a negative way, i.e. higher information
allocation is associated with lower credit risk.
This time, we find a positive relation (.592). This is as counterintuitive as the weak
results in the individual countries. It was stated that risk prediction capabilities should
increase and as a consequence, credit risk should be lowered. If a household already has

                                             27
                                        NICOLA JENTZSCH

a relatively high debt-service burden as a consequence of indebtedness, the marginal
propensity to grant credit should decrease.
We initially assumed that this translates into lower credit risk on the aggregate level. The
result is statistically significant on the 0.01 level, as well as the positive relations of credit
report sales with the variables for consumer indebtedness (.585) and consumer credit as a
percentage of GDP (.724). On the international level, a higher distribution of credit
reports is obviously associated with increased consumer indebtedness and broader credit
markets. Such a positive relationship also holds for credit risk.
One explanation for this is that with increasing consumer indebtedness, a higher part of
consumption will be financed by credit and more credit reports are sold as a
consequence. Less surprising is that credit risk is highly associated with consumer
indebtedness (.762) and consumer credit as percentage of GDP (.778). When we repeat
the tests directly with the FPI, we find that it is significantly negatively correlated with
consumer indebtedness (-.477), consumer credit as percentage of GDP (-.632) as well as
consumption financed by credit (-.318).
The following relationships can now be established: the more stringent are data
protection regimes in cross-country comparisons, the lower are credit report sales. With
increasing information allocation, both consumer indebtedness as well as consumer credit
as a percentage of GDP rise. Both go hand in hand it was stated. The more credit reports
are sold, the more credit risk will increase, since both variables are positively correlated.
If we exclude the reports and conduct the tests directly with the FPI, we find that
countries with higher FPIs have lower credit access, credit risk and consumer
indebtedness.
How can these results be explained? First, we have to state that the analysis above
involves only simple Pearson correlations for a few countries, but they might provide
some first indications. Such an analysis always suffers from problems of omitted
variables and we are not able to draw any conclusions about causal relations. Moreover,
rising credit risk as well as consumer indebtedness are certainly a function of economic
conditions. Households will borrow more if wages rise or job prospects look good.
Wage income is still the major income source of the average US household, so the job
market and the stability of the income stream – both of which are related to the business
cycle – will be of the utmost importance. We now turn to partial correlation coefficients.

3.3.4 Partial Correlation Coefficients: Cross-Country Evidence
We start to control for variables in the following way: first, the interdependency of the
FPI and information allocation will be checked by controlling for economic growth.
Table 7 presents the results. The negative relationship as we observed in cross-country
comparisons remains statistically significant, but to a somewhat weaker extent. However,
the statistical significance vanishes when we control for consumer market breadth or for
the latter and consumer indebtedness in a second-order partial correlation.
The interdependency of information allocation and credit risk, on the other hand, remains
statistically significant in first-order test with controlling for GDP. In the other cases, the
relationship vanishes. In the relation of the FPI with the risk proxy, we also get statistical
significance, the sign remains the same: negative, and this is the case in first-order partial

                                               28
                                THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

analysis (controlling for GDP growth) and in the second-order analysis controlling for
consumer indebtedness and consumer credit.

Table 7. Cross-country partial correlation coefficients
       Control variables            FPI – RS                RS – RISK                   FPI – RISK
     (2-tailed significance)
                                     First-order partial correlations
GDP growth                           -.6156**               .5480**                       -.6514**

Consumer credit % GDP                 -.3069                   .0747                       -.2924

                                      Second-order partial correlations
Consumer indebtedness,                  -.2048                .1509                       -.5140**
consumer credit % GDP
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).


Especially GDP growth appeared to be a candidate for intervening influence, but the
interdependencies of the FPI with information allocation or credit risk or information
allocation and risk remain statistically significant on the 0.01 level. Due to the small data
set, the model should not be over-fitting. Therefore, we refrain from including further
variables (household saving or consumer expenditure, for example) and we refrain from
conducting a regression analysis.
In sum, we observe that across countries, a rising number of data protection regulations
is associated with lower information allocation, lower credit risk and decreased
consumer indebtedness. However, with decreasing FPIs (and hence increasing
information allocation), consumer indebtedness increases as well as the other variables
that served as indicators for the consumer credit market. In addition, credit risk will rise.
In the following, another explanation of the observations is proposed. As stated, in the
individual countries, higher information allocation is associated with higher FPIs,
whereas countries with high FPIs in comparison to those with lower ones do exhibit
lower information allocation. However, if credit markets are broader, more transactions
take place and more credit reports will be sold. The expansion of the consumer credit
market increases marginal risk associated with less creditworthy households – this is the
reason why credit risk increases on the aggregate level.24
Current statements from the credit reporting business (see e.g. Experian, 1996, p. 12)
might help to further reinforce these assumptions: “In general, the usage of credit
profiles (and related services) is driven by consumer demand for credit (via new credit
cards, automobile loans, home mortgages and refinancing and other consumer loans) and
lenders’ efforts to develop new, and monitor existing, credit relationships.” Hence, the
broader the credit market, the higher the information allocation and the higher the credit
risk.


24
 Note that this aggregate level is not the overall credit market in the economy, but the consumer credit
market.

                                                  29
                                     NICOLA JENTZSCH

4.    Competition and Market Structure in Credit Reporting Industries

4.1   Competition in Information Markets
One of the major questions that arises in the context of efficiently working consumer
credit markets is what kind of industrial organisation exists in the credit reporting
industry. It could be very well the case that competition in such markets increases
information allocation and leads to a more efficient distribution of consumer credit.
However, information markets differ in certain important respects from traditional
markets, and the credit reporting industry in Europe in particular underwent major
changes in the 1990s.
The competition in the credit reporting industry constitutes an example of competition in
information markets par excellence. Such markets differ from traditional markets in
several specific characteristics, because they are dependent on network structures within
which information goods are traded. We will first elaborate on the general characteristics
of information markets and then describe the trends in credit reporting.
Networks are a form of industrial organisation and market governance. As coordination
mechanism, networks influence market structures as well as aggregate economic results.
Different authors have modelled networks among economic agents employing influence
matrices (Steyer and Zimmermann, 1998), cascade models or polya urn schemes
(Willinger and Ziegelmeyer, 1998). Others have employed spatial models that locate
agents on lattices (Jonard and Yildizoglu, 1998, and Nelson and Winter, 1982). These
models are mainly concerned with technology adoption, localised learning and network
externalities; few of them explicitly focus on information networks.
Network structures, however, reveal some economically significant characteristics that
cannot be neglected. With the aforementioned approaches, it is possible to explore
economically relevant problems such as dependence on initial conditions (Arthur, 1990
and 1994), path-dependence (David, 1985), critical mass, bandwagon effects, positive
feedback (Economides, 1993 and 1996), as well as standardisation problems (Besen and
Farrell, 1994). These features generate concentration processes that transform a polypoly
to an oligopoly or even a monopoly (so-called winner-takes-most markets; see
Economides, 2001).
The technological complementarities of network components generate network
externalities and positive feedback (in some cases also negative feedback) on the demand
or supply side. While these characteristics are normally observed in telecommunications
infrastructures, some of them can also be applied to information networks. These kinds
of networks abstract from technological infrastructures, since participants that share the
same information constitute such a network. These agents can be described as nodes in
the network, whereas the links between them depend on a probability that varies inter-
temporally (for a broader example, see Kirman, 1997).
The architecture of the network is constituted of the number of participants as well as
the symmetry (or asymmetry) of data flows between them and the system of information
flows. This is the problem of star networks with a monopolist information producer vs.
multiple point networks with several information producers constituting an information
oligopoly, for instance. Information diffusion and its efficiency are influenced by the

                                           30
                              THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

network architecture and the channels; hence architecture influences economic
outcomes. In this context, information is at the same time integrated in vertical networks
(as part of the value chain) as well as in horizontal networks (exchanges among different
firms of the same industry). Despite the fact that there is little economic literature on the
specific efficiency problems, one can apply certain network characteristics to credit
reporting as discussed below.
In credit reporting markets, the information flows among agencies, information suppliers
and consumers constitute such a network of information which reveals strong feedback
effects: its value increases as more creditors are connected to it. An increasing number of
data sources produces a more detailed profile of the data subject and in turn enhances the
risk prediction capabilities of the interconnected participants. The contributions of an
increasing number of data sources will almost inevitably (regulatory architecture ceteris
paribus) increase the flow of information among the agents.
Information exchange, however, has to be standardised (as well as the meaning of terms
such as bankruptcy) to ensure an effective flow among network participants. Moreover,
the more a network of one agency increases, the more attractive it will be for potential
participants leading to considerable bandwagon effects and network externalities. As far
as financial service providers deliver information to one of the agencies, excess inertia
may be generated from the costs that arise from switching to another network. This has
not been discussed in the literature so far. Instead, there is only anecdotal evidence.
Experian, for example, claims that it has long-standing customer relationships with the
top 25 customers for over a decade (Experian, 1996, p. 44).
Credit reporting competition reveals specific demand- and supply-side characteristics.
The information furnisher is the bank, insurance or any other credit-granting company.
However, this party is also the demander of the information as codified in reciprocity
contracts in credit reporting arrangements. These contracts have to establish incentive
alignments (the disclosure of truthful information) to ensure the efficiency of the
reputation system. All information suppliers are granted access to the data base, while
non-disclosure is sanctioned. This has not always been without problems, since it
produces significant effects on competition.
Market dynamics are to a crucial extent dependent on the consumer demand for credit.
This demand for credit cards, mortgages, automobile loans or other consumer loans
expands the demand for consumer profiles and related services:
      Consumer demand for credit tends to increase during periods of economic
      expansion, and lenders’ efforts to monitor credit relationships tend to increase during
      periods of economic contraction. Consequently, revenue from consumer credit
      information products is influenced by cyclical economic trends related to consumer
      debt (Experian, 1996, p. 12).25
Market barriers in this competitive surrounding are created by the already existent
network of the triopoly as found in the US, for example, and the high costs establishing

25
   Note that this is turning the logic around, as discussed in the section on empirical surveys.
Information-sharing is higher, because consumer credit markets are broader and deeper in times of
economic expansion.

                                                31
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

such a network. Companies will only enter the market if benefits are greater than the
costs of market entry and if it is expected that the market will further expand in the
future. As long as profit margins are high enough, other players will be attracted. In the
US as well as Great Britain, a triopoly developed. The intense pricing competition as
well as the established networks in the US may operate like private barriers to market
entry.
Credit reports as information goods exhibit problems that may deteriorate the allocative
efficiency of competitive market mechanisms. These characteristics are: non-excludability
as in the case of public goods, non-rivalry, indivisibility, immateriality and experience
character (Allen, 1990, and Romer, 1990). In the commodification process some of the
natural characteristics of information have to be transformed to achieve tradability. This
is for example done via the definition of a property rights structure. The thinner property
rights are, the more likely are externalities that may eventually produce market failure
(Coase, 1960). Specifically relating to privacy, problems of externalities and the
definition of property rights have been discussed by Varian (1996) and Laudon (1996).
One has to distinguish three kinds of transactions: (1) the primary transaction between
the consumer and the bank with aligned incentives; (2) the secondary transaction
between the bank and the credit reporting agency; and (3) tertiary transaction between
the credit reporting agency and third parties. In the secondary and tertiary transactions,
externalities can arise, since incentives of consumers and credit reporting agencies are no
longer aligned; moreover, if information transactions are not transparent, consumers
cannot exert their rights of blocking access which may result in information
misallocation. The general characteristics of information goods, as well as their
associated scale and scope economies lead to product diversification through
differentiation strategies, something that is observable in the credit reporting market.
Property rights for information are split among furnisher and information intermediary
(the credit bureau). The value added by the information intermediary is the accumulation
of the information from different sources that are depersonalised and the analysis of the
data.
In summary, one can observe network structures, while on the other hand there are
certain characteristics of information goods (similar to those of public goods) and
externalities that are typical of information markets. Another problem arises from the
strong concentration processes. However, they do not naturally result in weak
competition (depending on the strength of competition supervision). Upstream market
inefficiencies, it has to be noted, may reveal effects on downstream industries that
depend on such information goods (for example, the banking or insurance industry).
Upstream inefficient information allocation, may inhibit the competition in downstream
industries.
Apart from the aforementioned general economic insights, there are certain trends that
can be observed especially in the 1990s. First, the traditional core business of credit
reporting has changed enormously in the 1990s due to the progress in information
technologies and the increasing competition pressure in the mature information market of
the US. Today’s credit reporting bureaus – information service providers – not only
provide profiles, but all kinds of risk management products (e.g. scoring or screening
services) and increasingly also products and services for consumers such as score
                                            32
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

simulators and advice on consumer credit habits. TransUnion and Experian only lately
started to expand their business into the consulting field, advising their clients on data
assessment and modelling as well as on fraud reduction (Lee, 2002a, p. 8). The reason
for this is the high pressure on consumer reporting agencies in pricing as well in
servicing. While one observes an expansion into new areas on the one hand, there is the
reduction of some traditional activities like the collection business on the other.
Second, there are convergence processes in respect to segments of the information
market (for example, marketing information and creditworthiness information). This
seems to be especially the case in e-commerce with the emergence of vast collections of
personal data that are intended for marketing purposes (Groupement Français de
l’Industrie de l’Information, 2000). The reporting agencies also hold vast direct
marketing data bases that contain lifestyle and demographic information (Lee, 2002a, p.
8); moreover, in the US, the major credit bureaus have cooperation arrangements with
the information services and data mining company Acxiom to provide packages that
combine demographic and credit information (Fickenscher 1999).
Third, there are signs that new competitors are also entering the market from the side of
scoring services or business reporting services. For example, Fair, Isaac, the major US
provider of scoring products, intends to establish a service for consumers to notify them
if their scores have changed and to provide consolidated consumer reports (that is,
reports merged from all three credit bureaus). This would actually put the company in
more direct competition with the credit bureaus (Lee, 2002b). In Germany and the UK,
we have found examples of business reporting companies (Creditreform as well as D&B)
expanding their operations into the field of consumer reporting.
And fourth, there is the trend of integration of certain parts of the value chain, e.g. the
convergence of information and software applications (Groupement Français de
l’Industrie de l’Information, 2001).
We briefly review in the next section the competition trends in the relevant countries.
Due to severe problems with limited data availability on this issue, it is not possible to
construct a concentration index like CR4, CR8 or the Herfindahl-Hirschman index for
the European countries. There are, however, official indices for the US. It is only
possible to roughly describe the competition in the individual EU countries and to add
anecdotal evidence on important merger and acquisition activities. This is sufficient,
however, to gain an overview of the latest developments.

4.2   Competition in the US Credit Reporting Industry
Credit bureaus developed in the United States with the increased household mobility and
mass urbanisation in the second half of the 19th century, as Pagano and Jappelli (1993, p.
1711) note. Due to these socio-economic developments, informational asymmetries
between creditors and borrowers worsened – a problem that could be ameliorated by the
information collection of credit bureaus. In the US, banking regulation contributed to the
establishment of information-sharing arrangements, because it created barriers of entry
by establishing the dual banking system (National Bank Acts of 1863 and 1864) and
restrictions on branching (McFadden Act of 1927). The latter resulted in state-wide and


                                            33
                                            NICOLA JENTZSCH

limited area branching as well as unit banking.26 This segmented market structure
allowed potential competitors to share valuable information via credit bureaus.
In fact, business reporting developed earlier than consumer credit reporting. Early credit
reports date back to 1841, an historical hand-written collection of them from the period
1841-1891 is owned by Harvard University.27 Over time, companies also started to
collect information on consumers. Cole (1992, p. 220) reports that one of the first credit
bureaus was established in Brooklyn in 1860. In the 1890s, J.E.R. Chilton, which later
became one of the leading companies, started to collect information on customers in
Dallas, Texas.
In 1906, the first national organisation of credit bureaus was founded – the National
Association of Retail Credit Agencies (later Associated Credit Bureaus, ACB, and now
the Consumer Data Industry Association, CDIA). This organisation was set up as a
network of six small credit reporting agencies. The founding of credit bureaus increased
remarkably in the 1920s as well as the 1950s with the introduction of credit instruments
such as instalment credit and credit cards. During that period, the credit reporting market
was local: information was collected from local lenders and distributed locally.
In the 1970s, however, the industry started to employ IT on a larger scale. Such
investments and the following database concentration precipitated consolidation and
concentration processes in the industry. The larger market-players began to bring smaller
bureaus into their computer systems to benefit from their information collection. And the
smaller agencies, on the other hand, used the computer processing power and network of
the larger companies. Local credit bureaus either became affiliates of one of the
computer systems that profited from cheaper inter-bureau pricing schemes or remained
independent as resellers of credit reports (explained further below). Both the repositories
and their local affiliates that delivered information co-owned the information.
The profits attracted several companies; for instance the ACB founded ACB Services by
1970.28 In the 1980s, there were five credit reporting systems in the market: TransUnion,
TRW (that became Experian), Equifax, Chilton Corporation and Pinger Systems. The
Chilton Corporation eventually merged with TRW, whereas Pinger was sold to the
Computer Science Corporation. To complete national coverage, the companies
established a network of affiliates.
The concentration tendency was reinforced by the tendency towards natural monopoly,
which in turn had resulted from credit bureaus achieving economies of scale and scope,
allowing them to capture an ever-larger market share.29 Moreover, since industries like
retailers or financial services also consolidated, they demanded national service. In the


26
   These acts as well as the Bank Holding Act of 1956 and the Bank Merger Act of 1966 have been
revised in the major reform of the financial services industry: the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and
Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999.
27
   It was donated to the university by R.G. Dun & Company (which later became D&B).
28
   In 1989, this company was bought by Consumer Credit Associates, and a few years later bought and
sold again by the First Data Corporation, which renamed the division Innovis Data Solutions.
29
   In addition, credit bureaus try to receive information from as many sources as possible (Cole, 1992, p.
224).

                                                   34
                                THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

1970s, there were 2,250 credit bureaus in the market. This number has been reduced to
1,833 bureaus in 1997 (US Census Bureau, 2000). Due to network externalities and the
special competition surrounding information industries, an oligopolistic market structure
emerged.
This structure is three-tiered. At the very top is the triopoly Experian, Equifax and
TransUnion (Top-3). These three companies are called repositories, since they provided
the computer systems that small credit bureaus could not afford. Industry officials
estimate that those companies serve 95% of the consumer credit reporting market.
Officially it is claimed that all three of them have approximately the same market share
and together maintain files on about 190 million Americans (Consumer Data Industry
Association, 2002). In 1996, however, Experian (1996, p. 3) claimed: “The Company
believes that it is one of the two largest providers of consumer credit information and the
second largest provider of business credit information in the United States.”
In the lower medium range, we find some larger affiliates like CBC Companies. And at
the end of the spectrum, there are about 1,800 small credit bureaus. The latter are either
affiliates of one of the Top-3 or independent, as noted. As an affiliate, information is
delivered reciprocally. The small credit bureaus are mainly concentrated on their local
markets and supply enhanced reports, whether they merge reports from the three big
companies or enhance reports by adding own information collected from local
information sources such as courthouse records or local lenders. This extra information
provided the incentive for the big agencies to sign contracts with the small bureaus, but
this is changing as more and more nationally active retailers deal directly with one of the
Top-3.
Independent resellers, on the other hand, do not carry out information collection on their
own (the term “independent” is misleading). Instead, they also buy credit reports from
the repositories and merge them. The smaller bureaus are mainly occupying niche
markets, e.g. tenant screening, employment or mortgage reporting. This is mainly due to
the competitive advantage enjoyed by the Top-3 in national credit reporting for financial
services.
In the 1990s, the repositories followed an active acquisition strategy in buying their
affiliates. In 2002, Experian announced that it bought three affiliate credit bureaus (the
company has 38 affiliates in the US) and that it intended to buy additional affiliated
bureaus. The series of acquisitions is supposed to be completed in the next three years
(Experian, 2002c). TransUnion only has one affiliate left, and Equifax has an estimated
15 affiliates. Industry officials estimate that there will be no affiliates left in the next five
years.
The information pooled by a credit reporting agency is provided by various sources, for
example, banks, credit card companies, retailers, insurance companies, leasing
companies, employers or various public sources.30 The disclosure incentive of creditors is
ensured by the reciprocity principle, as noted. In general, the credit bureau serves as a


30
  Public records reviewed for data collection purposes are criminal records, property lien records and
bankruptcy filings (Schwartz and Reidenberg, 1996, p. 288).

                                                 35
                                          NICOLA JENTZSCH

conduit that secures precipitated information accumulation and channelling. In addition
to credit reports, it also provides scoring and other services.
As Cole (1992, p. 231) states, credit bureaus usually charge a base fee for their services
and an additional amount that depends on the volume of transmitted reports. Through
the aforementioned inter-bureau reporting schemes, the movements of individuals can be
traced throughout the US while at the same time creditors in various locations have
access to the databases of the major bureaus.
The Top-3 agencies individually negotiate contracts with large customers. They pay an
estimated $0.40 per credit report; small users that only demand several hundred reports
per month are charged an estimated $1.50-$2.00 (2002).
Scale and scope effects also affect coverage, which has the propensity to universality.
The more sources are connected to the network, the more detailed becomes the credit
report and the more precise may become the risk prediction.
Credit bureaus compete in several dimensions: price, coverage rates, data quality,
scoring services and coverage of information segments. The latter includes demographic
and marketing information on behaviour and lifestyles or business information. The
industrial organisation differs from segment to segment. For instance, Experian competes
with D&B in business reporting, but with Equifax and TransUnion in consumer credit
reporting and a range of other companies in marketing (Abacus Direct, Acxiom
Corporation, etc.).
In the US, coverage of the consumer credit market approached universality in the 1960s
(Pagano and Jappelli, 1993, p. 1712). Nowadays, approximately 1 billion credit profiles
are sold per year (Masons, 2002, p. 3).
The US market is a mature business that has developed over decades. Credit bureaus are
facing high pressure in the pricing as well as in the servicing dimension. Financial
institutions now seek to shop for reports from only one bureau instead of all three (Lee,
2002a). All three are supposed to provide credit reports based upon differing data on the
same individual (Lee, 2002a), but in fact it is not quite clear if the credit reports are
substitutes in their information content or concerning their score.31 They also differ in the
methods of data and risk analysis. The five leading online credit information providers
(according to their aggregated sales) are presented in Table 8.
The above-mentioned network of big and small credit bureaus is not shown by the
statistical numbers quoted from the US Census Bureau (2000). It appears that the credit
reporting industry is largely an industry of rather small, regional players with less then
100 employees and no or only one other establishment.32 The majority of consumer
reporting agencies in the US are single-unit firms compared to only six agencies with ten
or more establishments. Table 9 presents the official concentration ratios for 1992 and
1997.

31
   This is certainly an area of future research.
32
   Before 1987, consumer reporting agencies were published as part of a broader category (SIC 7321) in
the official US statistics; therefore, one cannot really compare the cited numbers with the earlier
statistics.

                                                 36
                                 THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Table 8. US market leaders in credit information provision
Year                  Position       Company                        Revenues
1998                  1.             Equifax                        $1.1 billion
                      2.             D&B                            $985 million
                      3.             Experian                       $576 million (for 1999)
                      4.             TransUnion                     $536 million
                      5.             CSC Credit Services            $257 million
2001                  1.             Experian                       $1.5 billion
                      2.             D&B                            $1.4 billion
                      3.             Equifax                        $1.1 billion
                      4.             TransUnion                     $1 billion
                      n/a            CSC Credit Services            n/a
Sources: Numbers for 1998 are taken from the Electronic Information Report (1999). The sales of these
         five companies represent 92% of the market. Estimate for TransUnion (2001) is based on
         CoolSavings, Inc. (2001). The other numbers are compiled from press and industry
         publications.



Table 9. Concentration by the largest credit reporting agencies (receipts)
Year                          Concentration ratio                      Receipts (percent)
1992                                CR4                                      21.5
                                    CR8                                      28.2
                                    CR20                                     36.5
1997                                CR4                                      53.2
                                    CR8                                      68.0
                                    CR20                                     75.9
Source: US Census Bureau (1995, 2000).

4.3    Competition in the European Credit Reporting Industry
The markets for credit reporting are not only differently structured in the US compared
to Europe, but also within European member states. We briefly review the history of
credit bureaus in Europe and then survey the market structure and competition as it
evolved in the 1990s. In contrast to their US counterparts, European credit bureaus have
so far mainly focused on national markets. However, due to the deepening economic
integration and technological advances, Europeans witnessed an intensification of
competition in the second half of the 1990s, as well as an increasing merger and
acquisition activity accompanying the market entry of the major US companies.
The earliest private credit bureaus were established in Europe at about the same time as
in the US. In Austria, a bureau was founded in the 1860s, followed by Sweden in the
1890s (Jappelli and Pagano, 2000b). However, where banks competed in a national
market, credit reporting agencies developed later and on a smaller scale. In Europe, most
private credit bureaus were founded in the 1960s and 1980s. The European system of
credit information-sharing is also characterised by public credit registers that are mainly
operated by national central banks. These registers are mandatory reporting systems that
operate like credit bureaus, but all financial institutions under the supervision of the

                                                 37
                                        NICOLA JENTZSCH

central bank have to report to it. Most of the public credit bureaus have been set up in
the second half of the 20th century. These systems set a reporting threshold on loans that
varies from country to country and from a several hundred dollars to over one million
dollars (for a more detailed survey, see Estrella et al., 2000, pp. 77-86). Especially the
high thresholds cut off data on household loans. The registers will also be reviewed
briefly due to their importance.
The operations of private credit bureaus in Europe range from an exchange of great
amounts of positive and negative data (Great Britain, Germany and Sweden) to exchange
on a medium scale (Finland and the Netherlands), and finally to only rudimentary
exchange in its infancy (Portugal and Greece). In France, however, there exists only a
negative information exchange.
As acknowledged, it is important to notice that the European credit reporting business
has primarily focused on national markets until the mid-1990s. This, however, is
changing rapidly. The industry now experiences the intensification of competition related
to the market entries of the Top-3: Experian has bought or cooperates with a number of
agencies in Germany, Belgium, Spain, Great Britain or Monaco; TransUnion competes in
the Italian market and Equifax in the markets of Spain and Portugal (Kitchenman, 1999).
Despite this competitive surrounding, the same concentration processes will be
observable just as occurred in the US market. Jappelli and Pagano (2000a) expect a
continental credit reporting system within the next five to ten years with two or three
large credit bureaus operating on the European level.
In Europe, the population coverage rates of private credit bureaus differ from about
100% in Great Britain and Belgium to 78.6% (Ireland) to 62% (Germany) and,
remarkably, to virtually no coverage in France (Jappelli and Pagano, 2000b, p. 29). The
intensified competition in European credit reporting industries will lead to a higher
coverage of population in the European credit markets and reveal considerable effects on
the credit-granting industry.
In the future, there will be the tendency to an oligopolistic market structure in Europe
and to transnational reporting schemes, while at the same time the coverage rates will
increase. If scoring services are also seen as a competitive advantage, we may observe a
tendency to more detailed credit profiles, as far as the collection of positive information
is allowed. Table 10 presents an overview of coverage rates.


Table 10. Coverage rates of private credit bureaus
      Country           Year        Population*            Credit reports     Coverage rate,
                                                          stored (millions)     (rounded)
United States           2000        275,423,000                 270               100%
Germany                 2000        81,168,000                   55                67%
France                  2000        60,431,000                   n/a                n/a
Great Britain           2000        59,756,000                   60               100%
* Population numbers are rounded and taken from the OECD (2002).




                                               38
                               THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

4.3.1 Germany
In Germany, there is a central public credit register (Evidenzzentrale) administered by the
central bank, Deutsche Bundesbank. This register was founded in 1934 after the Great
Depression revealed the serious threats posed by systemic risk and the incomplete
information of the creditors with respect to their borrowers. The exchange via the
Evidenzzentrale is based on three acts: Gesetz über das Kreditwesen (KWG), Federal
Data Protection Act and the guideline Verordnung über die Erfassung, Bemessung,
Gewichtung und Anzeige von Krediten im Bereich der Großkredit- und
Millionenkreditvorschriften des Gesetzes über das Kreditwesen (GroMiKV). Table 11
below presents coverage rates for Germany and France.

Table 11. Coverage rates of public credit registers (Germany and France)*
   Country          Year           Population                  Persons              Coverage rate
                                                                stored              (%, rounded)
Germany             1990           79,364,000                  367,000                   n/a
                    1991           79,984,000                  413,000                   n/a
                    1992           80,594,000                  464,000                   n/a
                    1993           81,179,000                  200,000                   n/a
                    1994           81,422,000                  210,000                   n/a
                    1995           81,661,000                  233,000                   n/a
                    1996           81,896,000                  269,000                   n/a
                    1997           82,052,000                  295,000                   n/a
                    1998           82,029,000                   32,104                  0.04
                    1999           82,087,000                   42,888                  0.05
                    2000           82,168,000                   47,776                  0.06
France              1990           58,026,000                     n/a                    n/a
                    1991           58,315,000                  633,686                  1.09
                    1992           58,612,000                 1,073,942                 1.83
                    1993           58,896,000                 1,360,000                 2.31
                    1994           59,115,000                 1,305,000                 2.21
                    1995           59,326,000                 1,198,318                 2.07
                    1996           59,533,000                 1,180,162                 1.98
                    1997           59,735,000                 1,184,447                 1.98
                    1998           59,942,000                 1,215,230                 2.03
                    1999           60,156,000                 1,376,520                 2.29
                    2000           60,431,000                 1,658,649                 2.74
* No public registries exist in the US or Great Britain. For Germany, persons stored refers to all
borrowers (including firms) for 1990-98, from that year onwards only to private households. Data on
private households before the year 1998 are not available.
Sources: Population numbers are taken from OECD (2002), persons stored are from the Banque de
        France and the Deutsche Bundesbank


All credit institutions and even some public administration offices in Germany are obliged
to report borrowers who are indebted exceeding €1.5 million at any point in time during




                                                39
                                             NICOLA JENTZSCH

the last quarter. Originally this threshold was 1 million DM (€0.5 million),33 but to
account for price increases and developments in the financial services industry, it was
increased in 1993 by the fourth amendment to the KWG to 3 million DM and the number
of companies that have to report also increased. In 2002, the threshold was altered to
accommodate the Euro. Quarterly, all credit-granting institutions receive automatically
references relating to the overall indebtedness of their clients. Private credit bureaus do
not have access to the database, moreover, the Bundesbank states: “Wegen der hohen
Meldegrenze und der im Vergleich zu privaten Kreditauskunfteien unterschiedlichen
Zweckbestimmung steht die Evidenzzentrale der Deutschen Bundesbank nicht in
Konkurrenz zu privaten Kreditauskunfteien (z.B. Schufa).” (Deutsche Bundesbank,
2002). Due to the high threshold for reporting, there is no direct competition with
private credit bureaus. In Germany, we do not analyse the public credit register, since
there are private credit bureaus in the market. The interested reader is referred to
Deutsche Bundesbank (1998, 2001) and Estrella at al. (2000).
Germany is dominated by one major private credit bureau, the Schufa Holding AG.
Originally, the former Bundes-Schufa was an association with eight regional bureaus. In
2000, the 61 Bundes-Schufa partners, mainly companies from the banking industry as
well as the retail and mail order industry, decided to restructure the non-profit
association as Schufa Holding AG (a for-profit company). The new legal entity is an
answer to the increasing competition pressures. According to its 2000 business report,
the company holds information on 55 million persons (Schufa Holding AG, 2001). In
1997, it had a partnership with the Italian credit bureau CRIF in order to develop scoring
solutions. The company has cross-border data exchange arrangements with three
countries (Italy, Austria and the Netherlands).
Another major player in the market is the Vereine Creditreform e.V. primarily providing
business information.34 In 1998, however, Creditreform founded a joint venture with
Experian, the Creditreform Experian GmbH (CEG). This brought the company into
direct competition with the Schufa Holding AG (Focus, 1998). Experian has been active
in Germany for nearly ten years. In 1998, Experian also bought the Directmarketing
GmbH (a data base of 28 million addresses). The latest acquisition of a company was
Cards Direkt, a private label card processor in Germany which makes Experian the
market leader in the processing of customer cards in Germany.
Medium players in the markets are Bürgel Wirtschaftsinformationen (11 million private
persons stored), Infoscore, and the Karstadt Quelle Infoservices, founded in 2000.
Despite the dominant market player, there are also still small companies providing credit
reporting services.

4.3.2 Great Britain
Great Britain’s market resembles that of the United States in that there is no public credit
register administered by the central bank. However, the Registry Trust Ltd, an
independent organisation that was established by the Lord Chancellor’s Department,


33
     Reference exchange rates of 22 May 2002 (1€ = $0.926).
34
     In 1990, about 25% of their data sets were private borrowers (Ganßauge, 1995, p. 75).

                                                     40
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

holds the statutory register for all County Court judgements. The major credit bureaus
are informed of judgements as well as of satisfactions and cancellations on a weekly
basis. In Great Britain, the sharing of positive and negative data is also allowed as long
as the consumer has provided his or her informed consent.
As we will see, even within the European context, there are major differences in the
attitude towards the collection of negative and positive data. The British Task Force on
Tackling Overindebtedness (located at the Department of Trade and Industry) proposes:
“Lenders should seek to share all currently permissible data, both positive and negative,
with other lenders. This should include outstanding credit balances, credit limits, open
credit lines, history of repayments and amounts borrowed” (Department of Trade and
Industry, 2001, p. 35). At the same time, the Task Force encourages all non-credit
organisations which regularly take payments from consumers to register those (as well as
the defaults) with the credit reference agencies.
Concerning competition, it seems like there is much more merger and acquisition activity
in Great Britain, than in Germany, for example. Since the beginning of the 1990s, a
number of takeovers have taken place. Just like in the US, there is an oligopolistic
market structure with three dominant players, Callcredit Plc, Equifax Plc and Experian
Ltd.
In 2001, the industry witnessed the creation of a new, web-based credit reference
agency, a partnership between the American D&B and the British Skipton Building
Society (Callcredit Plc). At the beginning of its operations, this company held credit files
on 44 million customers in Great Britain (Callcredit, 2002), and the company intended to
achieve 60 million records by the end of 2001 (Callcredit, 2001, p. 5).
Another US-based company, Equifax, was also very active in the British market. The
company not only bought four other firms (UATP Infolink, Grattan, Check-a-Cheque
and CCI Group Plc), it also invested in founding Equifax Card Solutions. In 1994,
Equifax won the bidding war for UATP Infolink against TransUnion which was also
interested in buying this company. In 1999, the Office of Fair Trading gave the green
light to the acquisition of a minority stake in the company Choicepoint.
Experian, originally the US-based TRW Information Systems and Services that merged
in 1996 with the American Direct Marketing Technology and the British CCN Group to
become Experian. Shortly after the merger, this company was bought by British retail
conglomerate Great Universal Stores Plc (GUS), a holding company that includes home
shopping, retail, property investment finance and information services. GUS spent $1.7
billion for this acquisition. In the following year, Experian remained on an expansion
course by acquiring the companies ICD and CCN Group as well as other companies.
Experian has its headquarters in both Great Britain and the US.

4.3.3 France
France is a special case. It stands in stark contrast to the other surveyed countries,
because France has developed a different system of reporting that is presumably
influenced by a more centralist approach. The major player in the credit reporting



                                            41
                                           NICOLA JENTZSCH

industry is the Banque de France which hosts different kinds of national databases
(FNCI, FICP, FCC and FIBEN), which serve various purposes.35 In the context of our
study, the data base called National Register of Household Credit Repayment Incidents
(Fichier National des Incidents de Remboursement des Crédits aux Particuliers, FICP) is
particularly relevant. The FICP was created by the Neiertz Act (Act on Preventing and
Resolving Personal Debt Problems) in 1989, whose details are described in the regulation
90-05 of 11 April 1990. Moreover, the FICP is governed by the 1978 Act on Data
Processing, Data Files and Individual Liberties.36
The 1989 act expanded the authority of the CRBF by mandating the creation and
regulation of a national data base on repayment incidents by households. It has the
purpose of centralising as well as distributing two kinds of “reports”: 1) effective
incidents in connection with credits granted to individuals for non-professional purposes;
and 2) repayment schedules drawn up by the French overindebtedness commissions
outside court-settlement procedures as well as recommendations after judicial review
(Banque de France, 2001b, p. 6). The credit institutions are free to consult the FICP, but
access is granted only to credit institutions, the financial service business of the La
Poste,37 overindebtedness commissions and the judicial authorities (Banque de France,
1994, p. 102). In turn, it is obligatory for the financial institutions to report the
information to the central register (Banque de France, 1994, p. 101). This means that the
French system can be characterised as an exclusive reporting scheme that allows only the
aforementioned institutions to use the information (Code de Consommation, Art. L. 333-
4). Moreover, the financial institutions are not allowed to transfer the reports in any form
whatsoever (Banque de France, 2002a, p. 5). Table 11 presents the coverage rates.
What kind of data is collected? The files contain the identity of the borrowers (i.e.
private persons), incidents on all types of credit granted (for non-professional purposes),
including overdrafts and repayment schedules drawn up by overindebtedness
commissions in out-of-court settlements (Banque de France, 2001b, p. 6). The Banque
de France has the sole right of collecting information on judicial measures, except for
cases in which the financial institution is directly involved in the case.
The threshold for incidents and overdrafts is about €457 (Banque de France, 2002b). It
was changed in 1996, when the Banque de France increased it from 1,000 FF to 3,000
FF. An incident is not reported to the Banque de France until one month has passed,
since this period could allow the borrower to rectify his or her situation. If no solution is
found or if the liability remains unpaid, then it is mandatory to report the incident to the
Banque de France. However, the subject of the report is informed of this inscription by
the reporting institution (Banque de France, 2002a, p. 3).



35
   These abbreviations stand for the following: Fichier National des Chèques Irréguliers (FNCI), Fichier
National des Incidents de Remboursement des Crédits aux Particuliers (FICP), Fichier Centrales des
Chèques (FCC) and Fichier Bancaire des Entreprises (FIBEN). The data base of interest is the FICP.
36
   The predecessor of FICP was the Centrale Professionelle d’Information sur les Impayés (CPII),
administrated by the Association des Sociétés Financières (ASF). It was the subject of a declaration
before the CNIL in 1989, but it is not used anymore. This exchange ended in the mid-1990s.
37
   La Poste is a postal service provider in France, which also provides financial services.

                                                  42
                             THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

The information is listed for different time spans. In the past, these periods have changed
several times. Originally, judicial measures and repayment plans were stored for three
years without erasure in case of repayment (Banque de France, 1994, p. 102). In 1993,
The CRBF decided to extend that period to five years (Banque de France, 2002a, p. 3).
In 2000, the CRBF issued a new regulation that expanded the period once more, now
repayment plans are stored for eight years (Règlement no. 2000-04 du septembre 2000).
In 2001, 6% of the stored incidents were mortgage credit incidents, while 94% were
incidents concerning consumer credit (Banque de France, 2002b). There are five
characteristics of the registered FICP reports that are described more precisely by the
Banque de France (1994). The file is legal, since it establishes a homogenous system of
access. It is presumably non-monopolistic, since the individual creditors can hold their
own internal files, but the FICP database is national and administrated officially. The
reason for this is explained as follows: “Cet ancrage public se justifie par les garanties
d’objectivité et d’impartialité de l’Institut d’émission et par son expérience en matière
de gestion de grands fichiers nationaux (…)” (Banque de France, 1994, p. 99). Another
central characteristic is the exclusive collection of negative data – only payment incidents
are stored. Concerning the system, the Banque de France states: “Il ne fonctionne donc
pas, à la différence de ce qui est observés dans la plupart des pays européens, comme
une centrale de risques recensant l’endettement général des particuliers mais comme
une centrale d’incidents” (Banque de France, 1994, p. 99).
It is important to note that there is no direct legal prohibition of positive information-
sharing, but there exists the principle that positive files were not included in the 1989 act.
Only if the law explicitly authorised the collection and distribution would this be allowed.
The Banque the France writes: “Le législateur, lors du vote de la loi No. 98-1010 du 31
décembre 1989 relative à la prévention et au règlement des difficultés liées au
surendettement des particuliers et des familles, n’a pas souhaité constituer un fichier
positif recesant les crédits. Il a préféré créer le FICP qui est un fichier négatif et de
confier la gestion à la Banque de France.” (Banque de France, 2002b). Another
important aspect explains the French system. The CNIL is also convinced that positive
information is more susceptible to being diverted from its original purpose than is
negative information, since the richness of the information tempts the collector to use it
for purposes other than the ones originally stated. It may not be so important whether
positive information is collected, but what is important is the fact that once it is
collected, it is quite difficult to return to a negative-only system (Leclercq, 2000, p. 20).
Another problem is that of legitimate access to positive information, since the borrower
is normally not defaulting and does not produce an incident. And in comparison to Great
Britain, the CNIL writes: “Ainsi le taux d’impayés au Royaume-Uni qui dispose
pourtant de deux centrales ‘positives’ est de même niveau qu’en France” (Leclercq,
2000, p. 20). This argument also holds in case of the United States, as explicitly stated
by the CNIL: it is 1.5% in France compared to 4-5% in the United States (Leclercq,
2000, p. 3).
A working group in the French Senat expressed consent in refusing positive information.
However, the same group states that it is important to improve the FICP (Senat, 1997).
The group states that FICP files could be enlarged to include unpaid taxes, unpaid bills
registered by French telecommunication providers and unpaid premiums registered by
                                             43
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

the French insurance industry. “Le groupe de travail est convaincu qu’ainsi enrichi, le
ficher actuel gagnerait en efficacité” (Senat, 1997).
In the case of an enlargement of files, however, there would be the question of access
authorisation for other information providers than the credit institutions.
And yet another question is how to finance the system. “Le coût du fichier actuel, soit
16.5 millions de francs par an, est réparti par la Banque de France entre les
établissements de crédits en fonction de leur part dans les encours de crédits” (Senat,
1997). If other parties participate in the system, these industries would also bear a part of
the costs.
Private companies collecting data in France belong to the marketing industry (Claritas,
Consodata and Cofinoga) or the business reporting industry (Bürgel, D&B, Graydon).
There are three credit reporting agencies in the market (Experian, Equifax and CRIF),
but they do not provide credit reporting services. These companies are active in the field
of cheque-processing or provide risk-management products to the financial industry. It is
important to note that the outsourcing of file management is allowed, but only for
internal uses (Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés, 2002).
Nevertheless, there is some activity in the French market. For instance, in 1998, Experian
bought the card and cheque processing firm SG2 from the Société Générale. A year
later, the company also bought DMC Informatique, another check processing firm.
Experian collects information on individuals as well as on companies and sells scoring
services as well as other risk-management products to the financial industry in France
(Experian, 2001, p. 5). Concerning credit reporting, the company verifies credit demands
of individuals by analysing their annual telephone bills, the files of the postal service (in
case of a move) and the files of its clients. Experian states: “Experian héberge le système
d’information ‘bases des impayés’ constitué par les sociétés commerciales et les
opérateurs de téléphonie mobile français” (Experian, 2002b).
In 2001, Experian bought a minority stake in CNTP, a check-processing subsidiary of
the company Setip (which is the IT service operation of the France Telecom). The
company now operates under the name CNTP Experian. As mentioned, positive
information-reporting is not directly forbidden by law in France, but since positive files
are excluded from the aforementioned legislation, it is assumed that their collection is not
allowed. Therefore, the CNIL does not authorise such information collection. This is the
reason why there is no privately organised credit reporting service in France. The FICP
coverage rates tended to be rather small in the second half of the 1990s, about 2.2% of
the total population.

4.4   International Cooperation
The credit reporting industry is increasingly cooperating on a national as well as on an
international level. The major organisation in the US is the Consumer Data Industry
Association (CDIA) (the former ACB) founded in 1906, which has 500 members (credit
reporting companies, but also mortgage reporting, employment reporting or collection
service companies). In 1992, the independent credit reporting agencies founded the
National Credit Reporting Association (NCRA) in Illinois. The intention of this
organisation of more than 100 members is to “achieve a reasonable balance within the

                                             44
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

industry” (National Credit Reporting Association, 1999). In Europe, the first
international association is the European Association of Consumer Credit Information
Suppliers (ACCIS), representing 21 consumer credit reference agencies from 14 different
European countries.
The public credit registers, on the other hand, work together in the Working Group on
Credit Registers (WGCR), which brings together representatives from the central
registers in Europe, including Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Austria, Portugal and
Spain and representatives of the European Central Bank. This Working Group is chaired
by Germany and belongs to the Banking Supervision Committee of the European System
of Central Banks.
The group is charged with preparing the organisation and technical procedures for trans-
national data exchange between the public registers. In February 2003, the group
finalised a Memorandum of Understanding that constitutes the foundation of pan-
European data exchange between public registries. It is intended to create a reporting
system that allows data exchange on a regular basis. The credit register of country A
would receive information from the registers in other participating countries on each of
its borrowers who also has debt in other European countries (Deutsche Bundesbank,
2002). National financial institutions, on the other hand, are supposed to gain access to
borrower information of other countries via their home credit register.
It is important to note that even in mid-2002, only a few countries (Belgium, Italy,
Portugal and Germany) had laws in effect that allow the transnational exchange among
public credit registers (Deutsche Bank, 2002). Bilateral agreements allowing regular
information exchange among the public European credit registers did not exist at that
time. In a first step, the registers agreed on exchanging information in single cases, but
for supervision purposes only. Therefore, the data are not transferred to financial
institutions (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2002).
In 1998, ACCIS and CDIA (then ACB) founded the Consumer Credit Reporting World
Committee (CCRWC) during the first Consumer Credit Reporting World Conference in
Rome. This forum is intended to monitor critical developments in the countries and to
organise formal meetings. In this association, European and American credit bureaus are
joined by bureaus from Asia and Africa. Transnational reporting in Europe is at the
beginning of its development and is organised via different information networks, for
example the BIGNet (users exchange business information), Eurogate (an information
network of reporting companies in Austria, Belgium, Germany, Spain and Great Britain)
and EurisConnect (a network among several European credit bureaus that provide a
European standard report on consumer credit profiles). Behind the latter stand Schufa
Holding AG and CRIF, which have jointly developed a “key factor system” that is
intended to translate the different reporting standards in a universal language.
It has to be noted that cross-border data exchange is largely underdeveloped among
member states. Only Anglo-Saxon companies have established international networks
(their “intranets”). The underdeveloped cross-border exchange in Europe can be
explained by supply- and demand-side restraints: on the supply side, the national focus of
credit reporting agencies hinders a quicker development of cross-border reporting, but
on the demand side, there seems to be a lack of demand from banks for credit reports on

                                            45
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

foreign borrowers. The latter is a reason why credit reporting agencies have primarily not
developed transnational reporting schemes to date.

5.    Conclusions
On both sides of the Atlantic, information sharing regimes in consumer credit markets
are currently under review. In Europe, policy-makers are discussing a new proposal of a
directive for consumer credit that mandates member states to operate negative registries,
among other provisions. In the United States, key provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting
Act are under scrutiny, since they expire by the end of 2003. These legislative changes
will have large-scale effects on consumer credit markets and the information structure in
these markets. For these reasons, the economic dimension of financial privacy has to be
understood in a more comprehensive way.
With the approach presented in this study, it is possible to show the differences between
data protection regimes in the US and Europe (with the reference countries Germany,
Great Britain and France) and to analyse the correlations of broader access to consumer
credit and increasing consumer indebtedness on both sides of the Atlantic. The Financial
Privacy Index was applied in order to rate the US and the EU according to their
regulatory regimes. Four fields were examined: supervisory authority, the rights of data
subjects, the obligations of credit bureaus and judicial remedies and enforcement. The
legal analysis of functional similarities showed that the US remains below EU levels in
terms of data protection regulations, and that within the EU, France provides the highest
number of such regulations. In addition, the changing values of the index in our time
series indicate the dynamic convergence of European regimes to a higher level of data
protection.
The author also conducted statistical tests to analyse the economic effects that are
associated with different data protection regimes. As stated, the purpose of the study
was not to choose one of the privacy regimes as a first-best solution. Only a more
differentiated view allows policy-makers to take the positive as well as the negative
economic consequences of data protection into account.
The statistical tests of the economic effects of more stringent data protection regimes
revealed interesting insights, some of which were even counter-intuitive. In the individual
countries, an increasing Financial Privacy Index is not associated with lower information
allocation, but rather with higher allocation. However, the international comparison
showed that countries with higher data protection are in general associated with lower
information allocation when compared to other countries. It holds that the more credit
reports are sold, the higher the access is to credit. This is certainly a positive effect.
However, increased access to credit is also correlated with increased consumer
indebtedness and in addition, consumer credit risk rises. This was explained by stating
that credit may be extended to households that are marginally a higher credit risk.
Our discussion of competition in the credit reporting industry focused on the
characteristics of networked information markets and the inherent concentration
processes. The review of the latest developments showed that there is significant merger
and acquisition activity in Europe, primarily driven by Anglo-Saxon companies. This will
lead to only three or four transnational credit bureaus or reporting networks with

                                            46
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

associated companies. This intensification will have a positive effect on the efficient
provision of information to the financial service providers. However, the EU still lacks
cross-border data exchange, which will be one of the crucial preconditions of an
integrated consumer credit market. The proposed directive on consumer credit should
therefore pursue the standardisation of European credit reporting systems. Since there
are large scale and scope effects existent in credit reporting markets, increased efficiency
can be achieved via national, unified standards. This also holds for the US market, where
it is currently discussed if certain provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act should be
left to state legislators.
Moreover, in the EU, the Commission should refrain from drawing up another directive
that explicitly deals with consumer credit information. The Financial Privacy Indices
imply that the process and speed of transposition is unequal, leading to increased
uncertainty for consumers and the industry.
European policy-makers need to find an economically reasonable balance between the
positive and negative effects of increasing exchange of personal information about
borrowers. This study shows that this exchange is not really inhibited by privacy
regulations in the individual countries. However, if access to credit is expanded across
borders, European policy-makers also need instruments to constantly monitor the
market. For this crucial surveillance Europe needs common definitions and procedures of
bankruptcy and over-indebtedness. If cross-border exchange is to be facilitated,
European policy-makers should ensure the transparency of this exchange for consumers.
This will be of utmost importance to increase confidence in a common European
consumer credit market.




                                            47
                                    REFERENCES
Allen, B. (1990), “Information as an Economic Commodity”, American Economic
      Review, 80 (2), pp. 268-273.
American Banker (1993), “Smaller Credit Bureaus Unite Against Big Three”, The
      American Banker, 29, p. 10.
Arthur, B.W. (1990), “Positive Feedbacks in the Economy”, Scientific American, 292,
      pp. 92-99.
———— (1994), “Positive Feedbacks in the New Economy”, McKinsey Quarterly, 1,
      pp. 81-95.
Azcuenaga, M.L. (1991), “Pre-screening under the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other
      Issues that Affect Credit Bureaus”, unpublished speech (January 17, 1991),
      http://www.ftc.gov/speeches/azcuenaga/ma11791.pdf
Banisar, D. (2000), An International Survey of Privacy Laws and Developments, Privacy
      International, www.privacyinternational.org
Banque de France (1994), “Le Bilan du Fichier national des incidents de remboursement
      des crédits aux particulièrs”, Bulletin de la Banque de France, 9, pp. 99-104.
———— (1995), “Évolution de l’activité des fichiers d’incidents gérés par la Banque
      des France”, Bulletin de la Banque de France, No. 15 (March), pp. 123-126.
———— (1996), Annual Report 1996, Paris.
———— (1998), Annual Report 1998, Paris.
———— (2000a), Annual Report 2000, Paris.
———— (2000b), Règlement No. 2000-04 du 6 septembre 2000 modifiant le règlement
      No. 90-05 du 11 avril 1990 relatif au fichier national des incidents de reboursement
      des        crédits      aus      particulièrs      (FICP),       http://www.banque-
      france.fr/fr/infobafi/regles/6_2004.htm
———— (2001a), The French Central Credit Register, Fact Sheet No. 115 (August).
———— (2001b), Over-indebtedness of Individuals, Fact Sheet No. 119 (August).
———— (2002a), Le Fichier National des Incidents de Remboursement des Crédits aux
      Particuliers, Note d’Information No. 129.
———— (2002b), Letter to the author, dated June 18.
Barr, L.B. and B.J. Ellis (1999), “The New FCRA: An Assessment of the First Year”,
      The Business Lawyer, 54, pp. 1343-1354.
Barron, J.M. and M. Staten (2000), “The Value of Comprehensive Credit Reports:
      Lessons from the US Experience”, in M. Miller (ed.), Credit Reporting Systems
      and     the     International    Economy, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
      www.privacyalliance.org/resources/staten.pdf
Bennett, C. (1992), Regulating Privacy – Data Protection and Public Policy in Europe
      and the United States, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press..
Besen, S.M. and J. Farrell (1994), “Choosing How to Compete: Strategies and Tactics in
      Standardisation”, Journal of Economic Perspectives, 8 (2), pp. 117-131.



                                           48
                            THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Boehmer, R.G. (2000), “A Comparison of US Privacy Laws with the European Data
      Protection Directive”, in Lehner, Franz and Ronald Maier (eds), Electronic
      Business and Multimedia, Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universitätsverband.
Bostic, R. and P. Calem (forthcoming), “Privacy Restrictions and the Use of Data at
      Credit Registries”, in M. Miller (ed.), Credit Reporting Systems and the
      International Economy, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Boyes, W.J., D. Hoffman and S. Low (1986), “Lender Reactions to Information
      Restrictions: The Case of Banks and the ECOA”, Journal of Money, Credit and
      Banking, 18 (2), pp. 211-219.
Brooker, P. (1998), “Experian Expands with Major Acquisition in France”, M2
      Presswire (Feb. 3).
Brühann, U. (1998), “The International Scene and the EU Directive: 5 Weeks before Its
      Entry Into Force”, Presentation, Rome.
———— (2000), “Privacy, the EU and the Processing of Financial Data”, Presentation,
      San Francisco.
Bundesbeauftragter für Datenschutz (1998), BfD-Info 1 – Bundesdatenschutzgesetz –
      Text und Erläuterung, Bonn.
———— (1999), BfD-Info 2 – Der Buerger und seine Daten, Bonn.
———— (2001), Datenschutz von A-Z, Index, www.bfd.bund.de/dsvonaz/a14.html
———— (2002), BfD-Info 1 – Bundesdatenschutzgesetz – Text und Erläuterung,
      Bonn.
Bürgel      (2002),      Und     wie      vermeiden      Sie      finanzielle    Verluste?,
      http://www.buergel.de/wirtschaftsauskuenfte.html
Callcredit (2002), About us - Overview, http://www.callcredit.plc.uk
———— (2001), Introducing Share, Creditlines, No. 1 (October).
Carey, P. and C. Russell (2000), Data Protection in the UK, London: Oxford University
      Press.
Cate, F. (2001), The Privacy Avalanche, 76th Annual Winter Newspaper Institute North
      Carolina Press Association,
      http://www.cspra.org/csprasite/pdfs/privacyparadox.pdf
Chandler, G.G. and L.E. Parker (1989), “Predictive Value of Credit Bureau Reports,”
      Journal of Retail Banking, XI (4), pp. 47-54.
Coase, R. (1960), “The Problem of Social Cost”, The Journal of Law and Economics,
      III, pp. 1-44.
Cole, R.H. (1992), Consumer and Commercial Credit Management (Irwin,
      Homewood).
CoolSavings, Inc. (2001), CoolsSavings, Inc. Appoints David Arney Chief Financial
      Officer, press release (October 10), PR Newswire Association, Chicago.
Commission National de l’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) (1978), Décret no. 78-
      774 du 17 juillet 1978, Official Journal (July), www.cnil.fr/textes/text061.htm
———— (1980), Arrêté du 23 Septembre, Official Journal (October),
      http://www.cnil.fr/textes/docs/a2309801a.pdf

                                            49
                                      NICOLA JENTZSCH

———— (1982), Décret no. 82-525 du 16 juin 1982 relatif à la redevance prévue à
     l'article 35 (alinéa 2) de la loi no. 78-17 du 6 janvier 1978 relative à l'informatique,
     aux        fichiers     et      aux      libertés,    Official     Journal       (Juin),
     http://www.cnil.fr/textes/docs/825251a.pdf
———— (1988), Déliberation no. 88-083 du juillet 1988 portant adoption d’une
     recommandation relative á la gestion des crédits ou des prêts consentis à des
     personnes physiques par les établissements de crédit, Official Journal (August),
     http://www.cnil.fr/textes/docs/recomand/880831a.pdf
———— (1998a), 18ème Rapport (1997), Paris.
———— (1998b), Déliberation no. 98-101 du décembre 1998 portant modification de
     la recommandation relative à la gestion des crédits ou des prêts consentis à des
     personnes physiques par les établissements de crédit, Official Journal (January),
     No. 22, Paris.
———— (1999a), 19ème Rapport (1998), Paris.
———— (1999b), Electronic Mailing and Data Protection, Paris.
———— (2000), 20ème Rapport (1999), Paris.
———— (2001), 21e Rapport d’activité 2000, Paris.
———— (2002), Mail to the author, dated May 30, 2002.
Consumer Data Industry Association (2002), website: http://www.cdiaonline.org/
Council of Europe (2001a), Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of
     Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, regarding
     supervisory authorities and transborder data flows (ETS No. 181), Strasbourg,
     http://conventions.coe.int/
———— (2001b), Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to
     Automatic Processing of Personal Data (ETS No. 108) Explanatory Report,
     Strasbourg http://conventions.coe.int/treaty/en/Reports/Html/108.htm
———— (2002), Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic
     Processing of Personal Data (ETS No. 108) – Status as of 03/05/2002, Strasbourg
     , http://conventions.coe.int/
David, P. (1985), “Clio and the Economics of QWERTY”, American Economic Review,
     75, pp. 332-337.
Dell’Ariccia, G. (2001), “Asymmetric information and the structure of the banking
     industry”, European Economic Review, 40, pp. 1957-1980.
Deutsche Bundesbank (1998), “Die Evidenzzentrale für Millionenkredite bei der
     Deutschen Bundesbank – Änderungen im Meldeverfahren”, Deutsche Bundesbank
     Monatsbericht, 50 (8), pp. 83-91.
———— (2001), Deutschen Bundesbank Geschäftsbericht 2001, Frankfurt am Main,
     pp. 176-181.
———— (2002), Letter to the author, dated June 7.
Department of Trade and Industry (2000), The Consumer Credit (Credit Reference
     Agency) Regulations 2000, Statutory Instrument 2000, No. 290,
     www.legislation.hmso.gov.uk/si/si20000/20000290.htm

                                             50
                           THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

———— (2001), Report by the Task Force on Tackling Overindebtedness, Consumer
      Affaires Directorate, London.
Economides, N. (1993), “Network Economics with Application to Finance”, Financial
      Markets, Institutions Instruments, 2 (5), pp. 89-97.
———— (1996), “The Economics of Networks”, International Journal of Industrial
      Organisation, 14, pp. 673-699.
———— (2001), “The Impact of the Internet on Financial Markets”, Journal of
      Financial Transformation, 1 (1), pp. 8-13.
Electronic Information Report (1999), “Leading Credit Info. Providers Look to Retain
      Growth in 1999”, Electronic Information Report, 20 (34), 2.
Eichhorn, W. and J. Voeller (1983), “Axiomatic Foundation of Price Indices and
      Purchasing Power Parities”, in W.E. Diewert and C. Montmarquette (eds), Price
      Level Measurement (Statistics Canada, Ottawa), pp. 1049-1113.
Eurostat (1998), “Statistische Güterklassifikation in Verbindung mit den
      Wirtschaftszweigen”, in der Europäischen Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft CPA 1996,
      Brussels.
European Commission (1997), First Annual Report, Brussels.
———— (1998a), Second Annual Report, Brussels.
———— (1998b), Transfer of Personal Data to Third Countries: Applying Article 25
      and 26 of the EU Data Protection Directive, Working Document, Brussels.
———— (1998c), Existing Case-Law on Compliance with Data Protection Laws and
      Principles in the Member States of the European Union, Interim Report, Brussels.
———— (1998d), Preparation of a Methodology for Evaluating the Adequacy of the
      Level of Protection of Individuals with Regard to the Processing of Personal Data,
      Brussels.
———— (1998e), Application of a Methodology Designed to Assess the Adequacy of
      the Level of Protection of Individuals with Regard to Processing Personal Data:
      Test of the Method on Several Categories of Transfer, Final Report, Brussels.
———— (1999), Third Annual Report on the Situation Regarding the Protection of
      Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and Privacy in the
      Community and in Third Countries, Brussels.
———— (2000) Commission Decision of 26 July 2000 – Pursuant to Directive
      95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the adequacy of the
      protection provided by the safe harbour privacy principles and related frequently
      asked questions issued by the US Department of Commerce, (2000/520/EC),
      http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/dataprot/adequacy/dec2000520ec.pd
      f
———— (2001), Fourth Annual Report on the Situation Regarding the Protection of
      Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and Privacy in the
      Community and in Third Countries, Brussels.
———— (2002), Fifth Annual Report on the Situation Regarding the Protection of
      Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and Privacy in the
      European Union and in Third Countries, Brussels.

                                           51
                                   NICOLA JENTZSCH

Eurostat (2002a), EU trade relations with the 12 Mediterranean Partner Countries
     (MED), News Release No. 32/2002, March 15, 2002
Eurostat (2002b), EU trade and investment with Mediterranean Partner Countries:
      towards a better partnership, Statistics in Focus, Theme 2, 13/2002 Experian
      (1996), SEC Form S-1 Registration Statement und the Securities Act of 1933,
      www.sec.gov
Estrella, A. et al. (2000), Credit Ratings and Complementary Sources of Credit Quality
      Information, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Working Papers, 3
      (August).
Experian (1996), Form S-1 Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933,
      Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.
———— (2001), Dossier de Presse, http://www.experian.fr
———— (2002a), Historique Complet, http://www.sg2.fr/france/about.htm
———— (2002b), Experian: Spécialiste mondial des services d’information,
      http://www.experian.fr/offres/offres.htm
———— (2002c), “Experian Announces Acquisition of AQM Information Solutions,
      Inc. and other Affiliate Credit Bureaus”, Press Release (September 12, 2002),
      http://www.gusplc.com/template_press.asp?filename=266&divisionname=Experian
Federal Trade Commission (1972), “The Fair Credit Reporting Act – A Check List for
      Consumers”, Consumer Bulletin, No. 7, Washington, D.C.
———— (1997), Notices of Rights and Duties under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 16
      CFR Part 601, www.ftc.gov/os/statutes/2-fedreg.htm
———— (1999), Credit Reports: What Information Providers Need to Know, FTC
      Facts for Businesses, Washington, D.C.
———— (2000a), Privacy of Consumer Financial Information; Final Rule, Federal
      Register 65 (101), Washington, D.C.
———— (2000b), “FTC Issues Final Rule on Privacy of Consumer Financial
      Information”, Press Release, May 15.
———— (2000c), “Nation’s Big Three Consumer Reporting Agencies Agree To Pay
      $2.5 million To Settle Charges of Violating Fair Credit Reporting Act”, Press
      Release, January 13.
———— (2001), The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act – Privacy of Consumer Financial
      Information, presentation, Washington, D.C.
———— (2002), The Fair Credit Reporting Act, Washington, D.C.,
      http://www.ftc.gov/os/statutes/fcrajan2002.pdf
Federal Register (2000), Part III Federal Trade Commission, 16 CFR 13 – Privacy of
      Consumer Financial Information, Final Rule, Washington, D.C.
Fickenscher, L. (1999). “Experian, not just a Credit Bureau, Emerges as Data Base
      Powerhouse”, The American Banker, 164 (64), pp. 1-4.
Fischer, R.L. and M.F. McEneney (1997), “Fair Credit Reforms: Relief and
      Responsibility for Banks”, Banker’s Magazine, 180 (2), pp. 5-13.


                                         52
                           THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Focus (1998), “Gläserner Kunde in der Datenbank”, Focus Magazin, May 30, No. 23, p.
      264.
France, E. (1995), Guidance Notes On Credit Referencing, www.dataprotection.gov.uk
      /dpframe/cont.htm
Ganßauge, K. (1995), Datenverarbeitung und – Nutzung von Kreditwürdigkeitsdaten
      durch fremdnützige Verarbeiter, Schriften zum Recht des Informationsverkehrs 11,
      Berlin: Duncker & Humblot.
Glassman, C. (2000), Customer Benefits from Current Information-sharing by Financial
      Services         Companies,            Ernst         &          Young        LLP,
      http://www.privacyalliance.org/resources/glassman.pdf
Goode, R.M. (1974), Consumer Credit Act 1974, Butterworths: London.
Groupement Francais de l’Industrie de l’Information (2000), Réunions, débats, colloques
      année 2000, http://www.gfii.asso.fr/reunion2.htm#convergence
———— (2001), Logiques et enjeux de la concentration dans le secteur de
      l’information professionnelle, http://www.gfii.asso.fr/concentration.htm
Hahn, R.W. and J.A. Hird (1991), “The Costs and Benefits of Regulation: Review and
      Synthesis”, Yale Journal of Regulation, 8, pp. 233-278.
Home Office (2000), Consumer Credit (Credit Reference Agency) Regulations 2000, SI
      2000, No. 290, London.
Jappelli, T. and M. Pagano (2000a), “Information-sharing, Lending and Defaults: Cross-
      Country Evidence”, Working Paper (October), http://www.banque-
      france.fr/gb/fondatio/papers/discuss/shar_old.htm
———— (2000b), “Information-sharing in Credit Markets: The European Experience”,
      CSEF Working Paper No. 35 (March).
Jentzsch, N. (2003a), “The Implications of the New Consumer Credit Directive for EU
      Market Integration”, position paper for Hearing of the EU Parliament, 29 April,
      http://www.europarl.eu.int/hearings/20030429/juri/jentzsch1_en.pdf
Jentzsch, N. (2003b), Scoring, Rating and Indexing: A Discussion of the Measurement
      of Socio-Economics Environments, Draft, http://userpage.fu-berlin.de/~jentzsch/
Jentzsch, N. (forthcoming), The Regulatory Environment for Business Information
      Sharing, draft available from the author upon request.
Jentzsch, N. and A. San José Riestra (2003), “Information Sharing and Its Implications
      for Consumer Credit Markets: United States vs. Europe”, Working Paper prepared
      for the European University Institute Workshop on Consumer Credit,
      http://www.iue.it/FinConsEU/may2003papers/ajenzsch.pdf
Jonard, N. and M. Yildizoglu (1998), “Interaction of Local Interactions: Localised
     Learning and Network Externalities”, in P. Cohendet et al. (eds), The Economics
     of Networks, Heidelberg: Springer, pp. 189-205.
Kirman, A. (1997), “The Economy as Evolving Network”, Journal of Evolutionary
     Economics, 7, pp. 3399-3353.
Kitchenman, W.F. and Diego Teixeira (1998), “Bureaus Do a Credible Job”, The
     Banker, 198 (867), pp. 104-106.

                                           53
                                    NICOLA JENTZSCH

Kitchenman, W. (1999), “US Credit Reporting: Perceived Benefits Outweigh Privacy
      Concerns”, Paper (TowerGroup, Needham).
La Porta et al. (1997), “Legal Determinants of External Finance”, The Journal of
      Finance, 52 (3), pp. 1131-1151.
Laudon, K.C. (1996), “Markets and Privacy”, Communications of the ACM 39 (9), pp.
      92–104.
Leclercq, P. (2000), “Crédit a la consommation – prévention de la fraude et des
      impayés”, Paris.
Lee, W.A. (2002a), “Credit-Reporter-as-Adviser Wave Adds TransUnion”, The
      American Banker, 167 (91), pp. 8-12.
———— (2002b), “Fair, Isaac Taps Institutions for Credit Score Distribution”, The
      American Banker, 167 (67), p. 1.
Lutterbeck, B. (1998), “20 Jahre Dauerkonflikt: Die Novellierung des
      Bundesdatenschutzgesetzes”, in Bettina Sokol (ed.), 20 Jahre Datenschutz –
      Individualismus oder Gemeinschaftssinn?, Düsseldorf.
Litan, R.E. and P.P. Swire (1998), None of Your Business: World Data Flows,
      Electronic Commerce, and the European Privacy Directive, Brookings Press,
      Washington, D.C.
Madsen, W. (1992), Handbook of Personal Data Protection, New York.
Maki, D.M. (2000). The Growth of Consumer Credit and the Household Debt Service
      Burden, Working Paper, Washington, D.C.
Maurer, V.G. and R.E. Thomas (1997), “Getting Credit Where Credit is Due: Proposed
      Changes in the Fair Credit Reporting Act”, American Business Law Journal, 34
      (4), pp. 607-661.
Marquez, R. (2002), “Competition, Adverse Selection, and Information Dispersion in the
      Banking Industry”, Review of Financial Studies, 15 (3), pp. 901-926.
Masons (2002), The Growth of Credit Referencing – Privacy Threat or Necessity?, Data
      Protection and Privacy Commissioners Conference Report, www.masons.com
Mellors, C. and D. Pollitt (1984), Legislating for Privacy: Data Protection in Western
      Europe, Parliamentary Affairs 37, pp. 195-211.
Miller, M. (forthcoming), “Credit Reporting Systems around the Globe: The State of the
      Art in Public and Private Credit Registries”, in M. Miller (ed.), Credit Reporting
      Systems and the International Economy, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Mierzwinski, E. (2001), Examination of Existing Federal Statutes Addressing
      Information Privacy, Hearing,
      http://www.pirg.org/consumer/privacy/mierzwinski.pdf
Mitrou, E. (1993), Die Entwicklung der institutionellen Kontrolle des Datenschutzes,
      Baden-Baden.
Murphy, N.B. (1980), “Economies of Scale in the Cost of Compliance with Consumer
      Credit Protection Laws: The Case of the Implementation of the Equal Credit
      Opportunity Act of 1974”, Journal of Bank Research, No. 10, pp. 248-240.
National Credit Reporting Association (1999), Our History and Future, Website
      www.ncrainc.org/about.htm
                                          54
                           THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

Nelson, R.R. and S.G. Winter (1982), An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change,
      Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
OECD (2002), Main Economic Indicators, Paris.
Office for National Statistics (2002), Standard Industrial Classification of Economic
      Activities 1992, http://www.statistics.gov
Office of Fair Trading (2002), personal communication to the author.
Official Journal (1995), Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the
      Council of 24 October 1995 on the Protection of Individuals with Regard to the
      Processing of Personal Data and of the Free Movement of such Data, L 281
      (23/11/1995), pp. 0031-0050.
Padilla, J. and M. Pagano (1997), “Endogenous Communication among Lenders and
      Entrepreneurial Incentives”, Review of Financial Studies, 10 (1), pp. 205-236.
Pagano, M. and T. Jappelli (1993), “Information-sharing in Credit Markets”, Journal of
      Finance, XLVIII (5), pp. 1693-1718.
Perine, K. (2001), Judges Approve FTC Restrictions on the Use of Consumer Data, The
      Industry Standard, 7 May, http://www.thestandard.com
Pincus, L.B. and R. Johns (1997), “Private Parts: A Global Analysis of Privacy
      Protection Schemes and a Proposed Innovation for Their Comparative
      Evaluation”, Journal of Business Ethics, 16, pp. 1237-1260.
Reidenberg, J.R. and P.M. Schwartz (1996), Data Privacy Law – A Study of United
      States Data Protection, (Michie, Charlottesville).
Romer, P. (1990), “Are Non-Convexities Important for Understanding Growth?”,
      American Economic Review, 80 (2), pp. 97-103.
Schufa          Holding         AG            (2001),     Geschäftsbericht         2000,
      http://www.schufa.de/Buttons/geschaeftsbericht.pdf
Selvanathan, E.A. and D.S. Rao (1994), Index Numbers – A Stochastic Approach (The
      University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor).
Senat (1997), Améliorer l’efficacité du Fichier des Incidents de Crédit aux Particuliers
      (FICP), www.senat.fr/rap/r97-060/r97-06023.html
Smith, J.F. (1977), “The Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974: A Cost/Benefit
      Analysis”, Journal of Finance, 32 (2), pp. 609-622.
Steyer, A. and J.B. Zimmermann (1998), “On the Frontier: Structural Effects in a
      Diffusion Model based on Influence Matrixes”, in P. Cohendet et al. (eds), The
      Economics of Networks, Heidelberg: Springer, pp. 223-243.
Swire, Peter P. (1996), “The Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act and the Future of
      Electronic Commerce Law”, Electronic Banking Law and Commerce Report, I
      (6), http://www.acs.ohio-state.edu/units/law/swire1/psccrra.htm
Thomas, L.C. (2000), “A Survey of Credit and Behavioural Scoring: Forecasting
      Financial Risk of Lending to Consumers”, International Journal of Forecasting,
      16, pp. 149-172.
Turner, M. (2001), The Impact of Data Restrictions on Consumers who Buy Apparel
      from Catalogues and the Internet, Information Services Executive Council
      (ISEC).

                                           55
                                   NICOLA JENTZSCH

US Census Bureau (2000), Economic Census of the United States 1997, Series,
      Washington, D.C.
US Census Bureau (1995), 1992 Economic Census: 1992 Census of Service Industries,
      Series, www.census.gov/92sc-s-1.pdf
Varian, H. (1996), “Economics of Personal Privacy”, research paper, UC Berkeley,
      www.sims.berkeley.edu/~hal/Papers/privacy/
Von der Lippe, P.M. (2002), Log-change Index Numbers I: Cobb-Douglas and
      Törnqvist-Index, Script, www.vwl.uni-essen.de/dt/stat/dokumente/tes/preb34.pdf
Waren, W.T. (1993), “Regulating the Credit Reporters”, State Legislatures 19 (4), pp.
      26-29.
Weber, A. (1986), “Die neue Schufa Klausel”, Die Bank: Zeitschrift für Bankpolitik und
      Bankpraxis, No. 7, pp. 370-374.
Willinger, M. and A. Ziegelmeyer (1998), “Are informed agents able to Shatter
      Information Cascades in the Lab?”, in Patrick Cohendet et al. (eds), The
      Economics of Networks, Heidelberg: Springer, pp. 291-307.




                                         56
                                                    ANNEX
Table A1. Evaluation instrument*
1. Supervisory authority
1.1 Existence                          Existence means that a supervisory authority is established. Its status
                                       concerning independence status is irrelevant.
1.2 Regulatory oversight (credit       Oversight means that the authority is assigned the enforcement of the act in
reporting)                             the financial sector or especially for the industry of credit reporting.
1.3 Issuance of binding guidelines     This requirement means that the authority (or several authorities) has the
                                       power to draw up regulatory guidelines and administrative measures that are
                                       mandatory for the companies under supervision of the authority and that are
                                       enforceable in courts. This point excludes the publication of voluntary
                                       guidelines.
1.4 Investigative competences          The authority is allowed to access and inspect data processing activities and
                                       to collect all information necessary.
1.5 Legal engagement                   The authority has the power to impose sudden or temporary stops of
                                       supposedly unlawful data processing operations. This point also includes the
                                       right to engage in legal proceedings (for example to sue) or to refer violations
                                       to judicial authorities.
1.6 Disclosure of company list         The authority is obligated to publish or otherwise disclose the list of
                                       registered/licensed data processors.
1.7 Regulation of international data   This point involves the task of an assessment of data exports to other data
transmissions                          protections regimes and regulations of international data flows. This is
                                       especially the case where the authority may even interrupt such data flows.

2. Property rights to information
2.1 Right to opt-in                    This point means that the data subject has to give her consent to the
                                       processing of data concerning her. This is normally done by informing the
                                       individual about data processing and sharing practices and some schemes via
                                       contractual clauses.
2.2 Notice in advance                  This requires some formal or informal notice in advance that explains that
                                       data is collected and that also might contain further details on how data are
                                       processed and to whom it may be disclosed.
2.3 Right to access                    Here, the data subject is granted the right to approach any company (and
                                       especially credit bureaus) to ask whether data are processed and to gain
                                       access to the data about her.
2.4 Right to stop unlawful data        The data subject has the right to completely stop the processing of data,
processing                             when this data processing activity is unlawful as considered by the act.
2.5 Right to correction                The data subject has the right to rectify data concerning her as far as they are
                                       incorrect. We have not included any interpretations of how this correction is
                                       achieved.
2.6 Right to erasure of incorrect data This right allows the data subject to approach any data controller and to
                                       order the complete erasure or destruction of incorrect personal data stored.
2.7 Right to updated data              We have specified this right to single out the problem that data does not
                                       necessarily have to be wrong; it just can be outdated. Therefore, the right to
                                       updated information receives an extra value in our scheme.
2.8 Blocking rights in disputes        This category includes the right of blocking any data transmission in a
                                       (ongoing) dispute settlement between the data controller and the data
                                       subject. A data subject that is allowed to attach a note of correction does not
                                       stop further transfers of such data.
2.9 Restrictions on the use of         Sensitive data categories generally include racial or ethnic origin, political
sensitive data                         opinions, trade union membership, religious and philosophical beliefs and
                                       also data concerning health and sex life. If these kinds of data categories
                                       receive further protection, we have denoted 1.
2.10 Right to depersonalisation and These measures seem to be a German particularity. The category means that
the use of a pseudonym                 data controllers should ensure that personal data are stored anonymously or
                                       with a pseudonym if possible.
2.11 Regulation of automated           This regulation provides the data subject the right to object to any decision
decisions                              that was obtained by an automated decision-supporting system (as is the case

                                                        57
                                                NICOLA JENTZSCH

                                        in credit scoring).
2.12 Right to know score                This is more precise than the indicator 2.12. It constitutes the right of the
                                        data subject to ask for the specific score achieved in a certain situation.
2.13 Bankruptcies disclosed 3           The longer information can be stored, the weaker data protection might
years                                   become. Therefore, we included the obligation to erase adverse data after 3
                                        years at the latest.
2.14 Delinquencies                      The same holds for this indicator: if information has to be erased within a
disclosed 3 years                       time frame up to or equal to 3 years, we granted a one. If not due to longer
                                        storage times, we granted a zero.
2.15 Judgements, judicial measures      This indicator follows the logic of the two aforementioned ones. If
 3 years                                information has to be erased within a time frame up to or equal to 3 years,
                                        we granted a one. If not due to longer storage times, we granted a zero.


3. Obligations of credit bureaus
3.1 Mandatory licensing or              This includes the mandatory licensing or registration of data processing
registration                            activities that involve personal data. Without the mandatory registration or
                                        licensing by the authority, personal data processing is considered unlawful.
3.2 Purpose specification               The purpose specification includes every regulation that establishes the
                                        obligation to specify the purposes for which data are collected and
                                        processed.
3.3 Limits on marketing uses            This point actually belongs to the “purpose specification.” We have singled
                                        it out to include the fact that some regimes also regulate marketing uses.
3.4. Restrictions on excessive data     Restrictions on excessive data collections do not allow the processing of
collection                              more data than are actually necessary to manage a contract, for example.
3.5 Prohibition to collect positive     In some regimes, it is forbidden to collect positive data, that is, data about
data                                    assets and liabilities, guarantees, debt structure, repayment patterns or
                                        employment status.
3.6 Disclosure specification            This aspect involves any limits that are posed upon data disclosures to third
                                        parties. This is typically found as “permissible purposes” of disclosure to
                                        third persons, although most of theses regulations are very general, we still
                                        have denoted the value 1.
3.7 Disclosure of data transmissions    This regulation obligates credit bureaus to disclose information on data
to third parties                        transmission to third parties, i.e. other parties than the data subject. The
                                        information has to be disclosed to the data subject interested in this
                                        information.
3.8 Time limits on data disclosure to   Certain regimes obligate credit bureaus to react to consumer requests within
the data subject                        certain time frames. If the act regulates this aspect, we denote the value 1.
3.9 Limits on fees for disclosure to    If the law determines an upper limit of fees in case of a data disclosure, we
data subjects                           denote the value 1. If it is forbidden to take a fee, then the upper limit is 0;
                                        we also denote the value 1.
3.10 Time limits for dispute            If there are any time limits in the case of a dispute settlement that are
settlement                              mandatory for credit bureaus, we also denote the value 1.
3.11 Information of the data subject    If the credit bureau is mandated to inform the consumer after a modification
after modifications                     of the report has taken place (especially after disputes), we denote a value of
                                        1.
3.12 Security measures                  The data controller (in our case the credit bureau) has to implement special
                                        security measures to prevent access by unauthorised persons.
3.13 Time limits for special data       This category includes any limits on storage of certain data categories (for
categories                              example convictions or bankruptcies). However, we have also assigned a
                                        value of 1 where we have found the general form of the allowance of a
                                        storage “no longer as needed” for that purpose.
3.14 Information task (of data          This obligates data controllers to notify other data controllers about data that
controllers)                            are incorrect but have been transferred to them.
3.15 Prohibition concerning scoring     This indicator is not equal with the aforementioned restrictions on sensitive
variables                               data (2.9). Gender, for example, is generally not labelled as sensitive
                                        information. However, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act places restriction
                                        on the use of the variable for scoring purposes.
3.16 Non-existence of exemptions        This indicator is more difficult to understand. Special data categories have
from time limits (3.13)                 to be erased after a certain time limit (3.13), but if there are exemptions (as

                                                        58
                                   THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY

                                       is the case in the US), data protection is undermined. Therefore, we grant a
                                       0 if there are exemptions and 1 otherwise.

4. Enforcement possibilities and remedies
4.1 Penalties of non-registration   This category emphasises the fact that registration may only be enforced via
                                    the introduction and use of legal powers to achieve a compliance with the
                                    law on the side of data controllers.
4.2 Existence of penalties for      This category emphasises that there must be an explicit penalty for receiving
unauthorised receiving of personal  personal information in an unauthorised way (like misrepresenting the own
information                         identity).
4.3 Existence of penalties for      This category emphasises that there must be an explicit penalty for
unauthorised storage                unauthorised storage of personal information.
4.4 Existence of penalties for      This category states that there must be an explicit penalty for an unlawful
unauthorised communication of       disclosure of any personal information.
personal information
4.5 Existence of penalties for         This category emphasises that there must be an explicit penalty for the
communication of incorrect             knowing communication of false information on the side of credit bureaus or
information                            information furnishers.
4.6 Existence of penalties for         This category indicates that there are explicit penalties for the unauthorised
unauthorised data modification         modification of personal information.
4.7 Existence of penalty in the form   This category further differentiates in stating the kind of penalty received by
of a (monetary) fine                   a responsible subject. If there is a penalty in the form of a fine, we denote a
                                       1.
4.8 Existence of penalty in the form   Strict regimes should imply that there is also a high penalty in the form of
of imprisonment                        imprisonment in case of the infringement of the rights of a data subject.




                                                       59
                                                    NICOLA JENTZSCH

Table A2. Pearson correlation coefficients: The US
                                 CI       CCGDP CCPPC              GDP        FPI      INT      RISK      RS
CI    Pearson                   1.000      .992**       .988**      .425     .753**    -.423    .789**   .790**
      Correlation
      Sig.                                   .000        .000       .168      .005     .171      .002     .002
      (2-tailed)
CCGDP Pearson                  .992**       1,000       .987**      .331     .725**    -.361     .795    .777**
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .000                     .000       .293      .008     .249      .002     .003
      (2-tailed)
CCPPC Pearson                  .988**      .987**       1,000       .382     .663**    -.367     .785    .703*
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .000         .000                   .220      .019     .240      .002     .011
      (2-tailed)
GDP   Pearson                   .425         .331        .382      1,000      .432    -.727**    .125     .390
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .168         .293        .220                 .161     .007      .698     .210
      (2-tailed)
FPI   Pearson                  .753**      .725**       .663**      .432     1,000     -.355     .712    .873**
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .005         .008        .019       .161               .257      .009     .000
      (2-tailed)
INT   Pearson                   -.423       -.361       -.367      -.727**   -.355    1,000      .066    -.559
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .171         .249        .240       .007      .257               .839     .059
      (2-tailed)
RISK  Pearson                  .789**      .795**       .785**      .125     .712**    .066     1,000     .545
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .002         .002        .002       .698      .009     .839               .067
      (2-tailed)
RS    Pearson                  .790**      .777**       .703**      .390     .873**    -.559     .545    1,000
      Correlation
      Sig.                      .002         .003        .011       .210      .000     .059      .067
      (2-tailed)
 OBS. N                          12           12          12         12       12        12       12       12
(each)
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).
* Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed).




                                                              60
                                      THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY


Table A3. Pearson correlation coefficients: Germany
                              CI      CCGDP         CCPPC          GDP       FPI       RS        INT      RISK
CI           Pearson      1,000         .877**        -.137        -.348     .078      .324      -.348     -.085
             Correlation
             Sig.                        .000          .672        .268      .809      .304      .267      .792
             (2-tailed)
CCGDP        Pearson     .877**         1,000         -.180        -.694*    -.091     .169      -.004     .248
             Correlation
             Sig.          .000                        .576        .012      .779      .600      .991      .436
             (2-tailed)
CCPPC        Pearson      -.137          -.180        1,000        -.019    .789**     .574      -.312     -.358
             Correlation
             Sig.          .672          .576                      .952      .002      .051      .323      .253
             (2-tailed)
GDP          Pearson      -.348         -.694*        -.019        1,000     -.041     -.206     -.199     -.314
             Correlation
             Sig.          .268          .012          .952                  .899      .520      .535      .320
             (2-tailed)
FPI          Pearson       .078          -.091       .789**        -.041    1,000     .919**    -.727**   -.744**
             Correlation
             Sig.          .809          .779          .002        .899                .000      .007      .006
             (2-tailed)
RS           Pearson       .324          .169          .574        -.206    .919**    1,000     -.823**   -.780**
             Correlation
             Sig.          .304          .600          .051        .520      .000                .001      .003
             (2-tailed)
INT          Pearson      -.348          -.004        -.312        -.199    -.727**   -.823**   1,000     .963**
             Correlation
             Sig.          .267          .991          .323        .535      .007      .001                .000
             (2-tailed)
RISK         Pearson      -.085          .248         -.358        -.314    -.744**   -.780**   .963**    1,000
             Correlation
             Sig.          .792          .436          .253        .320      .006      .003      .000
             (2-tailed)
 OBS.        N              12            12            12          12        12        12        12        12
(each)
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).
* Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed).




                                                              61
                                                   NICOLA JENTZSCH


Table A4. Pearson correlation coefficients: The UK
                              CI      CCGDP CCPPC                  GDP      FPI       RS       INT      RISK
CI    Pearson       1,000              .975**      .965**          .214    .903**    .890**   -.914**   .881**
      Correlation
      Sig.                              .000         .000          .505     .000      .000     .004      .009
      (2-tailed)
CCGDP Pearson      .975**               1,000      .997**          .257    .907**    .899**   -.966**   .938**
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                             .000          .420     .000      .000     .000      .002
      (2-tailed)
CCPPC Pearson      .965**              .997**       1,000          .239    .888**    .875**   -.965**   .932**
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                .000                       .455     .000      .000     .000      .002
      (2-tailed)
GDP   Pearson       .214                .257         .239          1,000    .286      .548     .096     -.335
      Correlation
      Sig.          .505                .420         .455                   .368      .065     .837      .463
      (2-tailed)
FPI   Pearson      .903**              .907**      .888**          .286    1,000     .843**   -.895**   .775*
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                .000         .000          .368               .001     .007      .041
      (2-tailed)
RS    Pearson      .890**              .899**      .875**          .548    .843**    1,000    -.872*    .918**
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                .000         .000          .065     .001               .011      .004
      (2-tailed)
INT   Pearson     -.914**              -.966**     -.965**         .096    -.895**   -.872*   1,000     -.844*
      Correlation
      Sig.          .004                .000         .000          .837     .007      .011               .017
      (2-tailed)
RISK  Pearson      .881**              .938**      .932**          -.335   .775*     .918**   -.844*    1,000
      Correlation
      Sig.          .009                .002         .002          .463     .041      .004     .017
      (2-tailed)
 OBS. N               7                   7           7             7        7         7        7         7
(each)
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).
* Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed).




                                                              62
                                      THE REGULATION OF FINANCIAL PRIVACY


Table A5. Pearson correlation coefficients: France
                              CI       CCGDP        CCPPC          GDP      FPI      RS        INT      RISK
CI    Pearson       1,000               .995**       .994**        .720**   -.441   .925**    -.969**   -.125
      Correlation
      Sig.                               .000          .000         .008    .152     .000      .000     .699
      (2-tailed)
CCGDP Pearson      .995**                1,000       .992**        .679*    -.443   .936**    -.959**   -.096
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                               .000         .015    .149     .000      .000     .766
      (2-tailed)
CCPPC Pearson      .994**               .992**        1,000        .672*    -.493   .951**    -.978**   -.168
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                 .000                       .017    .103     .000      .000     .602
      (2-tailed)
GDP   Pearson      .720**                .679*        .672*        1,000    -.333    .449     -.695**   -.072
      Correlation
      Sig.          .008                 .015          .017                 .291     .143      .012     .823
      (2-tailed)
FPI   Pearson       -.441                -.443        -.493        -.333    1,000    -.502    .605**    .461
      Correlation
      Sig.          .152                 .149          .103         .291             .096      .037     .131
      (2-tailed)
RS    Pearson      .925**               .936**       .951**         .449    -.502   1,000     -.935**   -.273
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                 .000          .000         .143    .096               .000     .391
      (2-tailed)
INT   Pearson     -.969**               -.959**      -.978**       -.695*   .605*   -.935**   1,000     .342
      Correlation
      Sig.          .000                 .000          .000         .012    .037     .000               .277
      (2-tailed)
RISK  Pearson       -.125                -.096        -.168        -.072    .461     -.273     .342     1,000
      Correlation
      Sig.          .699                 .766          .602         .823    .131     .391      .277
      (2-tailed)
 OBS. N               12                  12            12          12       12       12        12       12
(each)
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).
* Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed).




                                                              63
                                              NICOLA JENTZSCH


Table A6. Cross-country evidence
                           CI      CCGDP        CCPPC         GDP      FPI       INT       RS       RISK
CI    Pearson       1,000           .966**       .807**       .314*   -.477**    .236     .585**    .762**
      Correlation
      Sig.                           .000         .000        .030     .001      .128      .000      .000
      (2-tailed)
      N               48               48          48           48       48       43        48        43
CCGDP Pearson      .966**            1,000       .798**       .325*   -.632**    .249     .724**    .778**
      Correlation
      Sig.           .000                         .000        .024     .000      .107      .000      .000
      (2-tailed)
      N               48              48            48         48       48         43       48        43
CCPPC Pearson      .807**           .798**        1,000       .273    -.318*     -.002    .445**    .459**
      Correlation
      Sig.           .000            .000                     .060     .028      .991      .002      .002
      (2-tailed)
      N               48               48          48           48       48        43       48        43
GDP   Pearson       .314*            .325*        .273        1,000    -.148     -.092    .356*      .283
      Correlation
      Sig.           .030            .024         .060                 .316      .557      .013      .066
      (2-tailed)
      N               48               48          48           48      48         43        48        43
FPI   Pearson     -.477**           -.632**      -.318*       -.148   1,000     -.401**   -.622**   -.677**
      Correlation
      Sig.           .001            .000         .028        .316               .008      .000      .000
      (2-tailed)
      N               48              48            48          48       48       43        48        43
INT   Pearson        .236            .249         -.002       -.092   -.401**   1,000      .141     .664**
      Correlation
      Sig.           .128            .107         .991        .557     .008                .366      .000
      (2-tailed)
      N               43              43           43           43       43       43        43        43
RS    Pearson      .585**           .724**       .445**       .356*   -.622**    .141     1,000     .592**
      Correlation
      Sig.           .000            .000         .002        .013     .000      .366                .000
      (2-tailed)
      N               48              48           48          48        48       43        48       43
RISK  Pearson      .762**           .778**       .459**       .283    -.677**   .664**    .592**    1,000
      Correlation
      Sig.           .000            .000         .002        .066     .000      .000      .000
      (2-tailed)
           N               43         43           43          43       43        43        43        43
** Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed).
* Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed).




                                                        64
         EUROPEAN CREDIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (ECRI)

T
        he growth of consumer credit, spurred by the development of disposable household
        income, is an important element in the financial habits of families today. Consumer
        credit is regulated at EU level, but national differences in the size and developments of
consumer credit markets are considerable. Furthermore, cross-border provision of consumer
credit is almost non-existent. ECRI is the creation of a farseeing consortium of European credit
institutions that perceived a need for independent analysis of the retail financial services sector
at the EU level. They therefore established in 1999 ECRI as a non-profit international research
association, in partnership with CEPS. It aims to:
•   Carry out systematic research and analysis of developments in the retail finance sector with
    a view to developing a comprehensive picture of the situation at European level.
•   Construct a comprehensive data base of relevant and current statistics in order to fill
    important information and analytical gaps in the study of the field.
•   Bring to the attention of policy-makers national differences in the regulation of retail
    financial markets that inhibit the completion of a truly pan-European single market.
Activities
• Seminars and conferences cover all issues affecting the industry. In-depth research by
    specialised researchers, its quality guaranteed by the experts forming the Scientific
    Committee. Current topics include:
-   Consumer credit in the European Union
-   Regulating e-commerce in financial services
-   Consumer credit rates in the eurozone: Evidence on the emergence of a single eurozone
    banking market
-   Consumer credit regulation and practice in the CEECs
-   Completing the single market for retail financial services
-   Credit bureaus in Europe
-   European consumer finance: the rise of revolving credit
•   Monitoring EU developments and maintenance of a database on retail finance issues.
•   A quarterly newsletter is sent to all subscribers, and relevant publications can be
    downloaded from the ECRI website.

Members                                              Scientific Committee
Cetelem
                                                     Hubert Balaguy, Paribas, Centre d'Information
Citibank Belgium
                                                         sur l'Epargne et le Crédit
CNCE (Caisse Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne)
                                                     Peter Cartwright, University of Nottingham
Cofidis
                                                     Bernard Courbis, Université Lumière Lyon 2
Cofinoga
                                                     Marc Dassesse, Université Libre de Bruxelles
Findomestic Banca
                                                     Umberto Filotto, Assofin, Université de Rome
IntesaBci
                                                     J. M. Groeneveld, De Nederlandsche Bank
Provident Financial
                                                     Jukka Vesala, European Central Bank
RCI Banque
                                                     Jan Wouters, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
UPC (Union Professionnelle du Crédit)
