2025/12/20 14:35                                                             What Is China’s National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System? - CTD 101 Series - China Justice Observer




      China Justice Observer
      中司观察

       Select Language




      What Is China’s National
      Enterprise Credit Information
      Publicity System? - CTD 101 Series
           Thu, 28 Jul 2022
           Categories: China Law in One Minute
           Contributors: Meng Yu       余萌
           Editor: C. J. Observer




           You can check or verify the basic information of Chinese companies on this official
           platform via the link (http://www.gsxt.gov.cn/index.html). The information here is the
           most authoritative and timely.


                   This post was first published in CJO GLOBAL, which is committed to
                   providing consulting services in China-related cross-border trade risk
                   management and debt collection. We will explain how debt collection works in
                   China below.


           The National enterprise credit information publicity system is developed and run by
           the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) of China.

           As the competent company registration authority in China, SAMR holds all the
           company’s information.

           As of the end of May 2020, the cumulative number of visits to the system has reached
           126.885 billion, the number of queries has reached 10.816 billion, the average daily
https://www.chinajusticeobserver.com/a/what-is-china-s-national-enterprise-credit-information-publicity-system                                                                                    1/3
2025/12/20 14:35                                                             What Is China’s National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System? - CTD 101 Series - China Justice Observer

           number of visits is 109 million, and the average daily query volume is 8.6046 million.

           So, how do you use the system?

           First thing first, as the website is available in the Chinese language, you need to paste
           the legal Chinese name of the Chinese company in the search box, and then click
           “Search”. See the picture below:




           If you can’t find the company here, either the company doesn’t exist, or its current
           legal name is not what you type in. In short, this means that the company in this name
           doesn’t exist.

           If you can find the company, you can know its status, such as existence, revocation, or
           deregistration. See the picture below:




           Of course, if you find this operation too troublesome, you can always entrust us to do
           this for you and we won’t charge any fee for such work. For our China company
           verification services, please click HERE.




                                                                              ***

                   Do you need support in cross-border trade and debt collection?

           CJO Global's team can provide you with China-related cross-border trade risk
           management and debt collection services, including:
           (1) Trade Dispute Resolution
           (2) Debt Collection
           (3) Judgments and Awards Collection
           (4) Anti-Counterfeiting & IP Protection
           (5) Company Verification and Due Diligence
           (6) Trade Contract Drafting and Review

           If you need our services, or if you wish to share your story, you can contact our Client
           Manager Susan Li (susan.li@yuanddu.com).

           If you want to know more about CJO Global, please click here.

           If you want to know more about CJO Global services, please click here.

           If you wish to read more CJO Global posts, please click here.




https://www.chinajusticeobserver.com/a/what-is-china-s-national-enterprise-credit-information-publicity-system                                                                                    2/3
2025/12/20 14:35                                                             What Is China’s National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System? - CTD 101 Series - China Justice Observer

           Photo by Min on Unsplash

           Contributors: Meng Yu                余萌

                China Law in One Minute
                China-Related Cross-Border Trade Dispute
                CJO GLOBAL
                CTD 101 Series




                                               京ICP备18022536号-1 Copyright © 2025 CJO China Justice Observer All rights reserved.




https://www.chinajusticeobserver.com/a/what-is-china-s-national-enterprise-credit-information-publicity-system                                                                                    3/3
