2025/12/20 17:06                                                                                     Who did China ban from flying?


        SEARCH          LOGIN ABOUT  REFERENCES  PARTICIPATE  WORKS IN PROGRESS                                                                                   




                                                  Topics             Departments       Social Credit      Site Index         Glossary   ENGLISH HOME


        AFFILIATED WITH




        Turn on Translator mode
          Edit

        NEWSLETTER


          Email

                         Subscribe


        CRIMINAL



                                                                 Who did China ban from flying?
                                                                 BY JEREMY DAUM ON 2018/03/21


                                                                 Who did China ban from flying?

                                                                 Several Chinese government departments have jointly released a new document expanding the
        Public Security Administration                           nation’s no-fly list. The document is part of China’s emerging ‘Social Credit’ System, but the no-fly list
        Punishments Law (2025)
                                                                 is not aimed at people with ‘low credit scores’ [not so much a social credit thing], but at people who
                                                                 have broken specific laws or failed to perform certain legal obligations.

                                                                 The grounds for inclusion on the no-fly list are laid out in the new document and broken into two
                                                                 broad categories:
                     Translate
                                                                      1. Misconduct related to air travel.
                                                                      2. “Untrustworthiness” in other areas.
        Interpretation of Several Issues
        Concerning the Application of
                                                                 The first category is fairly intuitive: Make a bomb threat, charge the cockpit, threaten flight crew,
        Law in Handling Criminal Cases
        of Attacks on Police Officers                            steal while aboard a plane, etc. and you might be barred from flying again for up to a year.


                                                                 Some of the conduct in this category is less serious, like the improper use of electronics on aircraft,
                                                                 but these require an additional element or aggravating factor –like refusing to comply with flight
                                                                 crew’s requests to stop– before they merit inclusion in the no-fly list.


                                                                 Moreover, for all of the acts in the ‘air travel conduct’ category, inclusion on the no-fly list occurs only
                                                                 when the police have given an administrative punishment or brought a criminal prosecution over the
        Joint Discipline Measures for                            conduct, suggesting that it needs to meet a definite level of seriousness.
        Telecommunications Network
        Fraud and Related Violations and                         The second category of misconduct is WAY more interesting: this is conduct with no connection to
        Crimes
                                                                 air travel or air safety that can still land you on a no-fly list. In such situations the civil aviation
        ADMINISTRATION                                           authorities are barring passengers from flying solely to put pressure on them to comply with another
                                                                 government department’s law enforcement demands.


                                                                 The grounds for inclusion on the no-fly list for this type of conduct are organized in the document on
                                                                 the basis of which signatory department they are associated with:
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/who-did-china-ban-from-flying/                                                                                                             1/4
2025/12/20 17:06                                                                                   Who did China ban from flying?

                                                                      1. State Taxation Administration: Failure to pay taxes when able to do so.
                                                                      2. Ministry of Finance: Financial fraud, or overdue debts to international finance organizations
                                                                         or foreign governments
                                                                      3. Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security: Failure to contribute to social insurance,
                                                                         benefit fraud, refusal to assist in investigations or to correct problems, etc.
                                                                      4. Securities and Futures Commission: Failure to pay fines for securities or futures violations,
                                                                         failure of publicly listed companies to perform public commitments.
        Regulations on Procedures for                                 5. Supreme People’s Court: judgment Defaulters
        Formulating Administrative
        Regulations (Revision Draft for                               6. Other: This final category suggests that the document might be amended as more signatories,
        Soliciting Comments )                                            and corresponding misconduct, are added.

                                                                 Joint Disciplinary Action of this kind is one of the core concepts of the Social Credit System. The
                                                                 idea is that when someone is labeled as ‘untrustworthy’ in one field, they will face hurdles in every
                                                                 aspect of their lives. This is realized by attempting to link all of a person or entity’s negative conduct
                                                                 to their individual social credit number (ID numbers for citizens, a special code for entities), so that it
                                                                 can be easily shared between government departments on a national credit information platform. The
                                                                 diverse departments and agencies then coordinate joint-discipline by making agreements to all take
        Guidelines for Online Transaction                        action against the ‘untrustworthy’ individuals identified by the other departments.
        Platforms' Compliance in
        Charging Fees (Draft for
                                                                 Many regulatory agencies also publicly release the ‘blacklists’ of the ‘untrustworthy’ people they
        Solicitation of Comments)
                                                                 identify in their areas of competency, including for air and train passengers. But note: the ‘negative
                                                                 conduct’ or ‘untrustworthiness’ considered in blacklists and for joint punishment refers only to
                                                                 violations of laws, regulations, or legal obligations, spelled out in implementation rules produced by
                                                                 each agency.

                                                                 The Supreme People’s Court’s Judgment Defaulter List is the most prominent example of such a
                                                                 blacklist, and has already been implemented for some time. To aid the court in enforcement of valid
                                                                 judgments, 44 separate governmental departments signed this M.O.U. agreeing to restrict access or
        Interpretation on Several Issues
        Regarding the Application of Law
                                                                 services to those placed on the Court’s list. Prohibitions on air and high-class train travel, and other
        in Administrative Open                                   limits on high spending, are among the many restrictions placed on judgment defaulters, and have
        Government Information Cases                             already impacted millions.

        LABOR
                                                                 Because the Judgment Defaulter List is based on a valid court judgment and applies only to those who
                                                                 have the ability to perform on the judgment but refuse to do so, broad enforcement across unrelated
                                                                 fields seems to be an easier pill for some to swallow. I suspect, moreover, that both inside and outside
                                                                 of China many people would also have no objections to enforcement of a no-fly ban extending to the
                                                                 conduct listed in category 2 of the new document, viewing it as just deserts for misconduct. There are
                                                                 many reasons to be concerned however.

                                                                 One concern is proportionality. Taking the Court Judgment Defaulter system as an example, one can
        Notice on the Release of the                             see that the ‘enforcement’ measures of travel and spending prohibitions can quickly become excessive.
                 Translate
        System for the Elimination of
                                                                 Where a court orders that a person pay token damages, is it reasonable that the same consequences
        Sexual Harassment in the
        Workplace (Reference Text) and                           should be imposed against them for refusal to comply as against those owing years of child support, or
        System for Special Workplace                             responsible for corporate ecological destruction? Again, many will argue that is, as the penalty is for
        Protections of Female Workers
        (Reference Text)
                                                                 the refusal to comply itself, and that the difference in judgments is still taken into consideration as
                                                                 fulfilment of the underlying obligation is the primary requirement for removal from the list.

                                                                 When the judgment is not financial, the problem becomes more pronounced and subject to abuse. It
                                                                 has been reported that a lawyer ordered by a court to give a formal apology was not removed from the
                                                                 list because the judge found their apology insincere [UPDATE: THIS CASE SEEMS to have been
                                                                 misreported]. If one defaulted on a court order to periodically visit one’s mother who lived far away
                                                                 (authorized under the law on the protection of the elderly), a ban on air travel would seem to be
                                                                 directly at odds with encouraging performance.
        Measures for the Hiring and
        Management of Foreign Teachers
        (Draft for Solicitation of                               A second, related concern is that the ‘credit’ consequences of a legal violation will become a way to
        Comments)                                                give offenders punishments beyond those authorized by law.

                                                                 The Judgment Defaulter List, and many of the second category no-fly list situations, is concerned with
                                                                 enforcement of existing obligations. It seeks to make life less comfortable for the relevant party until
                                                                 the obligation is fulfilled. In other situations, however, the goal is deterrence, and the consequences of
                                                                 appearing on a black list (again, for a legal violation) are there to discourage or prevent future
                                                                 violations. The no-fly list’s first category of offenses related to air travel, for example, are aimed both
                                                                 to discourage misconduct and to keep already identified safety threats off planes.
https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/who-did-china-ban-from-flying/                                                                                                            2/4
2025/12/20 17:06                                                                                     Who did China ban from flying?
        Notice on Relevant Safeguards for                        Inclusion on the list, however, is in addition to the administrative or criminal punishment already
        Medical Care Workers and Related
        Staff Infected with the Novel
                                                                 lawfully imposed for the initial violation. China’s Criminal Law and laws on administrative
        Coronavirus Pneumonia Due to                             punishments already dictate what punishments those offenses should be met with; inclusion on the
        the Performance of Work Duties                           list is a punishment for having received those punishments. Being barred from air travel for up to a
                                                                 year might seem a reasonable indirect consequence of an air safety violation, but seems absurd as a
        MORE CATEGORIES
                                                                 consequence of refusal to perform military training obligations, as has been reported in Jilin. The
         Select Category                                         indirect penalties of being on a violator ‘black list’ could conceivably become worse than the penalties
                                                                 for the violation itself.

                                                                 Finally, while the social credit system’s ‘blacklists’ focus on violations of laws and legal obligations,
                                                                 that covers a lot of ground. Violations can include some forms of speech, consequences for failure to
                                                                 regulate the speech of others in chat groups, insulting the courts, and so on. So far the social credit
                                                                 joint punishment agreements between departments have generally been modest, and usually link
                                                                 consequences tightly to the underlying ‘untrustworthy’ violations. The no-fly document and its
                                                                 companion document restricting train travel, however, might signal a greater willingness impose less
                                                                 closely related sanctions on the ‘untrustworthy’- even absent a court judgment.

                                                                 UPDATE: Additional Implementation Procedures Available here have been released.

                                                                                                                  Click to rate this post!
                                                                                                                      [Total: 0 Average: 0]


                                                                         Author profile           Related entries



                                                                                                Jeremy Daum
                                                                                                Jeremy Daum is a Senior Fellow of the Yale Law School Paul Tsai China Center,
                                                                                                based in Beijing, with over a decade of experience working in China on
                                                                                                collaborative legal reform projects. His principal research focus is criminal
                                                                                                procedure law, with a particular emphasis on protections of vulnerable populations
                                                                                                such as juveniles and the mentally ill in the criminal justice system, and is also an
                                                                                                authority on China’s ‘Social Credit System’. Jeremy has spoken about these issues
                                                                                                at universities throughout China and in the U.S.; and has co-authored a book on
                                                                                                U.S. Capital Punishment Jurisprudence for Chinese readers. He is also the founder
                                                                                                and contributing editor of the collaborative translation and commentary site
                                                                                                Chinalawtranslate.com, dedicated to improving mutual understanding between
                                                                                                legal professionals in China and abroad.
                                                                                                He translates, writes, edits, does web-design, graphic design, billing, tech support,
                                                                                                and social media outreach for China Law Translate.




                                                                 Related Posts:
                     Translate

                                                                      1. Opinions on Appropriately Limiting Specified Seriously Untrustworthy Persons from
                                                                         Taking Civil Aircraft for a Certain Period of Time, and Promoting The Establishment of
                                                                        the Social Credit System
                                                                      2. Notice on Work related to the Implementation of Restrictions of Certain seriously
                                                                         Untrustworthy Persons from Taking Trains or Civil Aircraft for a Specified Period
                                                                      3. Easy as ABC
                                                                      4. What is a social credit demonstration city?

                                                                 Published in CLT Originals and Social Credit Articles



                                                                 One Comment

                                                                           Terri choat
                                                                           2018/04/15


                                                                 This information is so useful for me. I have been teaching in China for 3yrs. Thank you for this.

                                                                 Reply



                                                                 Leave a Reply

https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/who-did-china-ban-from-flying/                                                                                                                     3/4
2025/12/20 17:06                                                                                 Who did China ban from flying?

       Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

       Comments




       Name*

          Jane Doe

       Email*

          name@email.com

       Website

          http://google.com



                     I am human
                                                         Privacy - Terms



           Post Comment




                                                                                                           




                                                                           USER AGREEMENT       About Us         Getting Started

                     Translate

                                                                                 Mission News Theme by Compete Themes.




https://www.chinalawtranslate.com/en/who-did-china-ban-from-flying/                                                                4/4
